.I 325
.T
heat transfer to constant property laminar boundary
layer flows with power function free stream velocity
and wall temperature variation .
.A
levy,s.
.W
heat transfer to constant property laminar boundary
layer flows with power function free stream velocity
and wall temperature variation .
  numerical computations have been performed for the
boundary-layer form of the energy equation for incompressible flows
with power-function variation of free-stream velocity (u =
cx) and of wall temperature (t = ax), the pertinent solutions
of the momentum equation in this case being those of hartree .
the numerical computations given herein are to some extent a
repetition of those given by schuh and by chapman and rubesin,
the object of the present computations being the resolution of
discrepancies appearing in the previous solutions and an extension of
their range .  ibm machine calculations were employed in the
finite difference calculation presently utilized, the results thereof
covering a range of wall-temperature function exponents from
values of m(4, 1, 0, -0.0904) .  the accuracy of the numerical
computations is examined in detail, and the accuracy of the
computed functions at the wall, which determine the heat-transfer
rate, is estimated to be within 2 per cent .
  examination of the results reveals that the results of schuh
for the flat plate are in error .  for the range of the calculations,
it was found that the local heat-transfer coefficient can, with the
exception of large negative values, be expressed within 5
per cent as
where the exponent of the prandtl number varies from 0.254
to 0.367 for -0.0904 and where the function
can be approximated by the equation
.I 326
.T
forst-order slip effects on the compressible laminar
boundary layer over a slender body of revolution in
axial flow .
.A
shen,s.f. and solomon,j.m.
.W
forst-order slip effects on the compressible laminar
boundary layer over a slender body of revolution in
axial flow .
analysis of the
compressible boundary layer with transverse curvature in first
order slip flow .  no boundary-layer interaction effects are considered
and only the zero pressure-gradient case is examined .
.I 327
.T
on local flat plate similarity in the hypersonic boundary
layer .
.A
moore,f.k.
.W
on local flat plate similarity in the hypersonic boundary
layer .
  a study is made of lees' /local flat-plate similarity/ rule for
the hypersonic laminar boundary layer .  it is shown that this
rule is exact under assumptions commonly invoked in the
inviscid theory of hypersonic flow .
  beginning from this theoretical basis, a modified local
flat-plate similarity scheme is derived, involving separate rules for
velocity and enthalpy profiles, and is compared with exact
similarity solutions and with the existing theory of hypersonic
leading-edge interaction .
.I 328
.T
the boundary layer near the stagnation point in hypersonic
flow past a sphere .
.A
herring,t.r.
.W
the boundary layer near the stagnation point in hypersonic
flow past a sphere .
  flow properties behind shock waves caused by bluff bodies
traveling at supersonic speeds are of major importance in missile
and high-speed aircraft design .  paper presents a mathematical
solution for the laminar boundary layer near the stagnation point of a
sphere .  surface temperature is free-stream static and shock is
strong .  air is assumed calorically and thermally perfect with a
prandtl number of 0.72 and a dynamic viscosity directly
proportional to temperature .
  based on work of homann (zamm 16, p. 153, 1936) and lighthill
simultaneous differential equations for the velocity and
temperature profiles .  these are solved by numerical integration along a
normal to the surface using a digital computer .  results are
presented as functions of free-stream mach number, reynolds
number, and specific heat ratio .  as increases,
boundary-layer thickness is shown to decrease while shock stand-off
distance increases .  stand-off distance also decreases with increasing
and decreasing specific heat .  for constant and specific
heat ratio, the product of skin-friction coefficient and the square
root of decreases with increasing only approaching a
constant value at greater than 10,000 .
  reviewer's comment is concerned with the perfect gas
assumption for air .  author suggests that the effects of dissociation on
flow properties are accounted for by a proper choice of specific
heat ratio .  a consideration of the kinetics of chemical reaction in
the cooled boundary layer emphasizes the oversimplification of
this approach .  the effect on transport properties could have been
approximated in present analysis by changing the prandtl number
to one more representative of the existing pressures and
temperatures .
.I 329
.T
various aerodynamic characteristics in hypersonic rarefied
gas flow .
.A
probstein,r.f. and kemp,n.h.
.W
various aerodynamic characteristics in hypersonic rarefied
gas flow .
  this paper considers the problem of calculating viscous
aerodynamic characteristics of blunt bodies at hypersonic speeds and
at sufficiently high altitudes where the appropriate mean free
path becomes too large for the use of familiar boundary-layer
theory but not so large that free molecule concepts apply .
  results of an order-of-magnitude analysis are presented to
define the regimes of rarefied gas flow and the limits of
continuum theory .  based on theoretical and experimental
evidence, the complete navier-stokes equations are used as a
model, except /very close/ to the free molecule condition .  this
model may not necessarily give the shock wave structure in
detail but satisfies overall conservation laws and should give a
reasonably accurate picture of all mean aerodynamic quantities .
  in this /intermediate/ regime there are two fundamental classes
of problems ..  a /viscous layer/ class and a /merged layer/
class, the latter corresponding to a larger degree of rarefaction .
for the viscous layer class there is a thin shock wave, but the
shock layer region between the shock and the body is fully
viscous, although the viscous stresses and conductive heat transfer
are small at the shock wave boundary .  here, the use of the
navier-stokes equations with outer boundary conditions given
by the hugoniot relations is justified .  for the merged layer
class, the shock wave is no longer thin, and the navier-stokes
equations can be used to give a solution which includes the shock
structure and has free-stream conditions as outer boundary
conditions .  a simpler procedure is presented for /incipient merged/
conditions where the shock may no longer be considered an
infinitesimally thin discontinuity but where it has not thickened
sufficiently to entail the /fully merged layer/ analysis .  in this
case we approximate the shock by a discontinuity obeying
conservation laws which include curvature effects, viscous stresses,
and heat conduction .
  for a sphere and cylinder it is shown that the navier-stokes
equations can be reduced to ordinary differential equations for
both the viscous and merged layer class of problems .  solutions
of these equations, when used in connection with hypersonic flow
problems, are in general only valid in the stagnation region .  to
illustrate the viscous layer solutions, numerical calculations
have been performed for a sphere and cylinder with the
assumption of constant density in the shock layer, which is a useful
approximation at hypersonic speeds .  to illustrate the merged
layer solution, calculations have been carried out for a sphere
using the incipient merged layer approximation .
  results are presented for detachment distance, surface shear,
and heat-transfer rate in the stagnation region of a highly cooled
sphere flying at hypersonic speed .  with decreasing reynolds
number, the shear and heat transfer are shown to increase above
the extrapolated boundary-layer values in the viscous layer
regime and then to begin falling in the incipient merged regime .
as the reynolds number decreases in the incipient merged
regime, the density in the shock layer increases, and the static
and stagnation enthalpy behind the shock decrease .
  calculations performed for an insulated sphere show that, with
decreasing reynolds number in the incipient merged regime,
the density in the shock layer decreases,. the total enthalpy
behind the shock and at the stagnation point increase so that they
are higher than the free-stream total enthalpy,. and the
stagnation-point pressure behaves like the total enthalpy .
  for the highly cooled cylinder in the viscous layer regime, the
same quantities are presented as for the sphere .  the increase
found in shear and heat transfer above extrapolated
boundary-layer theory is small, in agreement with vorticity interaction
theory .
  a discussion is given of the behavior of available experimental
data for viscous flow quantities in the intermediate regime and
the behavior predicted by the results of the present calculations .
qualitative agreement is indicated .
.I 330
.T
taylor instability of finite surface waves .
.A
emmons,h.w., chang,c.r. and watson,b.c.
.W
taylor instability of finite surface waves .
the instability of the accelerated interface
between a liquid (methanol or carbon
tetrachloride) and air has been investigated
experimentally for approximate
sinusoidal disturbances of wave-number range
from well below to well above the
cut-off .  the growth rates are measured and
compared with theoretical results .
a third-order theory shows the phenomena
of overstability which is found in the
experimental results .  some measurements
of later stages of growth agree
moderately well with the available theory
and disclose some additional
phenomena of bubble competition, helmholtz
instability with transition to turbulence,
and jet instability with production of drops .
.I 331
.T
effects of surface tension and viscosity on taylor
instability .
.A
bellman,r. and pennington,r.h.
.W
effects of surface tension and viscosity on taylor
instability .
  the model used is that of two
fluids of infinite depth, with the interface
initially in the form of a sine wave with
amplitude small compared to wave length .
the fluids are considered incompressible,
and only the linear terms in the equations of
hydrodynamics are used .  the first four
sections discuss the effects of surface tension
and viscosity .  the fifth gives a few numerical
results to illustrate the main points of
the preceding sections .
.I 332
.T
similitude of hypersonic real-gas flows over slender
bodies with blunted noses .
.A
cheng,h.k.
.W
similitude of hypersonic real-gas flows over slender
bodies with blunted noses .
  on the basis of the hypersonic small-perturbation theory, the
laws of similitude for hypersonic inviscid flow fields over thin or
slender bodies are examined, and the restrictions to ideal gases
with constant specific heats and to bodies with pointed noses are
removed .  only steady plane or axisymmetric flows are
considered .
  inspection of the governing system of equations shows that a
similitude law exists for flow fields, under local thermal
equilibrium, having the same free-stream atmosphere .  for flows of
ideal gas with constant specific heats, the requirement of the same
free-stream atmosphere--i.e., the same composition, pressure, and
density--can be replaced by the requirement of the same ratio of
specific heats .
  for flows over blunted wedges or cones, special laws of
similitude can be obtained .
  application of the similarity rules is examined for the case of
hypersonic flows of an ideal gas with over flat plates
with blunt leading edges, and for the case of equilibrium air
flows over wedges .  the possibility of simulating nonequilibrium
flows over slender or thin bodies is also pointed out .
.I 333
.T
boundary-layer interaction on a yawed infinite wing in hypersonic
flow .
.A
robert j. whalen
.W
boundary-layer interaction on a yawed infinite wing in hypersonic
flow .
the equations are given for the laminar boundary-layer
equations on a yawed infinite wing for constant
wall temperature, under the combined howorth and
mangler transformation .  diagrams show the relatively
small influence of yaw, the increase of boundary-layer
secondary flow, and the variation of the local heat
transfer rate with yaw .
.I 334
.T
influence of the leading-edge shock wave on the laminar boundary layer
at hypersonic speeds .
.A
lester lees
.W
influence of the leading-edge shock wave on the laminar boundary layer
at hypersonic speeds .
in order to bring out the importance of the leading-edge region at
hypersonic speeds, the influence of the leading-edge shock wave on
the laminar boundary layer is investigated in two simple cases of
steady flow over a semi-infinite, insulated flat plate..  (1) sharp
leading edge., (2) blunt leading edge, as approximated by a normal
shock wave .  the streamlines that enter the boundary layer over a large
region of the plate surface has previously crossed the shock wave
very near the leading-edge, where the shock is strong and highly
curved .  consequently, the temperature at the outer edge of the
boundary layer is appreciably higher than free-stream temperature,
and the vorticity there is not zero .  the effects of this shock-wave
larger than the usual /errors/ made in the boundary-layer theory,
and an estimate of these effects can therefore be obtained within the
framework of that theory .  the numerical magnitude of the shock-wave
influence is found to be appreciable .  for the case of the blunt
leading edge the slope of the curve of induced pressures plotted against
the hypersonic interaction parameter closely approaches the experimental
data of hammitt and bogdonoff obtained in helium at large values of this
parameter .  these approximate results show that the influence of the
leading-edge region at hypersonic speeds requires careful theoretical
and experimental study .
.I 335
.T
the interaction between boundary layer and shock waves in transonic
flow .
.A
liepmann, h. w.
.W
the interaction between boundary layer and shock waves in transonic
flow .
experiments of transonic flow past a circular arc profile show that the
shock-wave pattern and the pressure distribution are strongly dependent
upon the state of the boundary layer . a change from laminar to
turbulent boundary layer at a given mach number changes the flow pattern
 considerably .
shock waves can interact with the boundary layer in a manner similar to
a reflection from a free jet boundary . these shock waves are not
distinctly discernible from pressure distribution measurements .
.I 336
.T
simplified laminar boundary layer calculations for
bodies of revolution and for yawed wings .
.A
rott,n. and crabtree,l.f.
.W
simplified laminar boundary layer calculations for
bodies of revolution and for yawed wings .
  since the introduction of momentum methods in
boundary-layer calculations by von karman and pohlhausen, many
improvements have been proposed .  an especially simple solution
reduces the problem to a quadrature .  here, it is proposed to
extend these methods to elementary three-dimensional cases and to
compressible laminar boundary-layer calculations .  for
comparison, the corresponding problems for the turbulent boundary
layer are also discussed briefly .
.I 337
.T
boundary layer transition with gas injection .
.A
scott,c.j. and anderson,g.e.
.W
boundary layer transition with gas injection .
the mass-injection process has been proposed as a method
of cooling aerodynamic surfaces, and, since the amount of
coolant required to maintain practical wall temperatures is
considerably larger for turbulent than for laminar boundary layers,
knowledge of the effect of the cooling method on the transition
process is certainly important .  exploratory studies reported
here were conducted at mach number 3.7 to ascertain the
effects of gas injection on the stability of the laminar boundary
layer on a conical surface .
.I 338
.T
mass transfer cooling at mach number 4. 8.
.A
leadon,b.m., scott,c.j. and anderson,g.e.
.W
mass transfer cooling at mach number 4. 8.
mass-transfer experiments on a 5 mil wire porous cone
of 20 total angle have been conducted at using
air and helium injection .  details of the experimental technique
are described in references 1 and 2 .  in the laminar boundary
layer the recovery factors and heat-transfer coefficients measured
with zero injection agreed within per cent with theory .
transition reynolds numbers observed on the porous cone with
zero injection were half as large as observed on a smooth,
impermeable model of identical geometry in the same channel, but
injection of large amounts of air or helium did not cause
transition to move forward from its zero-injection position on the
porous cone .  distributed roughness of this type apparently does
not disturb impermeable wall theory, but it masks whatever
effective roughness may be caused by discrete pore injection .
.I 339
.T
experimental evaluation of heat transfer with transpiration
cooling in a turbulent boundary layer at m=3 .2.
.A
bartle,e.r. and leadon,b.h.
.W
experimental evaluation of heat transfer with transpiration
cooling in a turbulent boundary layer at m=3 .2.
  it is found that for prescribed velocity field, electrical field and
conductivity, the current can be calculated by integration .  work is
related to analytic investigation of the boundary layer in a
physically reasonable accelerator .
.I 340
.T
analysis of effects of diffusion of a foreign gas into
the laminar boundary layer of a supersonic flow of
air in a tube .
.A
radbill,j.r. and kaye,j.
.W
analysis of effects of diffusion of a foreign gas into
the laminar boundary layer of a supersonic flow of
air in a tube .
  adiabatic wall temperatures and recovery factors are calculated
for pipe flows with an entrance mach number of 5 and with uniform
injection of helium .  predicted values of the recovery factor
increase slowly with increasing injection rate and with increasing
distance from the tube entrance .
.I 341
.T
the analytical design of an axially symmetric laval
nozzle for a parallel and uniform jet .
.A
foelsch,k.
.W
the analytical design of an axially symmetric laval
nozzle for a parallel and uniform jet .
  the equations for the nozzle's contours are derived by
integration of the characteristic equations of the axially symmetric flow .
since it is not possible to integrate these equations
mathematically in an exact form, it was necessary to find a way to
approximate the calculations .  the approximation offers itself by
considering and comparing the conditions of the flow in a cone with
those in a nozzle, as a linearization of the characteristic equations .
  the first part of the report deals with equations for the
transition curve by which the conical source flow is converted into a
parallel stream of uniform velocity .  the equations are derived
by integration along a mach line of the flow in the region where
the conversion takes place .  a factor f is introduced expressing a
relation between the direction and the velocity of the flow along
a certain mach line .  f remains undetermined and is not involved
in the final equations .
  in the second part of the report, the spherical sonic flow
section is converted into a plane circular section of the throat .
the nozzle's contour adjacent to the throat is formed by the arc
of a circle connected with the transition curve by a straight line .
the gas dynamic properties of the boundary mach line are
calculated in table 1, the use of which shortens the calculations
considerably .
.I 342
.T
effect of diffusion fields on the laminar boundary
layer .
.A
smith,j.w.
.W
effect of diffusion fields on the laminar boundary
layer .
  a theory is developed which describes the effect of a general
diffusion field on the dynamic and thermal characteristics of a
laminar boundary layer on a flat plate in steady compressible
flow .  fluid properties are considered as functions of
temperature and local concentration of the foreign gas .  the diffusion
field is described by a differential equation that relates
convective and diffusion transfer and which considers diffusion currents
arising from gradients of concentration and temperature .  by
means of the usual transformations the system is reduced to a set
of ordinary differential equations, which in turn are transformed
into a set of integral equations .  the latter is amenable to
solution by the method of successive approximations .
  the theory and results have bearing on the problem of control
and reduction of aerodynamic heating at hypersonic speeds .
the special feature of this approach lies in the utilization of
diffusion fields for the purpose of reducing the detrimental effects
of viscous dissipation .  although the theory is adapted to a
fuller investigation of this problem, the numerical examples
considered involve mainly diffusion fields of helium, with which
good results have been achieved at mach numbers 8 and 12 .
whereas at the higher mach number the influx of heat was
practically eliminated, a reversal in the direction of heat flow has
been effected at the lower mach number .
.I 343
.T
transpiration cooling experiments in a turbulent boundary
layer at m=3 .
.A
leadon,b.m. and scott,c.j.
.W
transpiration cooling experiments in a turbulent boundary
layer at m=3 .
  turbulent recovery factor and heat-transfer measurements have been
made on a porous flat wall section at a nominal mach number of 3.0 and a
reynolds number of approximately 4 x 10 using both air and helium as the
transpired gas .  measured heat-transfer
coefficients correlate well with the
compressible theory of rubesin for air
and qualitatively with simple film
theory for either coolant, indicating that
the heat transfer from a turbulent
boundary layer can be reduced by transpiration
cooling to well below that of
the uncooled boundary layer at the same reynolds number .
.I 344
.T
some experimental techniques in mass transfer cooling .
.A
leadon,b.m.
.W
some experimental techniques in mass transfer cooling .
  author introduces his survey by a brief review of the history of
investigations dealing with boundary layers on impermeable solid
surfaces, and notes that no true theory exists for turbulent
boundary layers, the success of studies in this area having been due to
the introduction of artificial, if ingenious, assumptions which
permitted empirical correlations fd data .  the terminology introduced
by the author for distinguishing the different situations involving
mass transfer from the wall to the stream may give rise to some
objections .  for instance, /film cooling/ need not refer only to
the injection of a liquid, since applications involving gas film
cooling exist .  also, his restriction of the term /transpiration
cooling/ to refer to the injection through a porous surface of a gas
only of the same composition as the exterior stream does not enjoy
universal usage .  the influence of mass transfer on heat transfer
through laminar boundary layers and on the transition from laminar
to turbulent flow is described, with consideration given to the
question of the net effect of the stabilizing influence of surface
cooling and the destabilizing influence of injection .
  reviewer suggests that author's inaccurate statement to the
effect that /thus far the higher energy conditions do not threaten
to involve turbulent injection, so turbulent boundary-layer research
enjoys a fairly academic serenity broken only by its own
frustrations/ be excused on grounds of poetic license, although it
ignores the efforts being devoted to the pressing practical problems
of erosive burning of solid propellants (possibly the most common
example of a complete /aerothermochemical/ problem involving
distributed surface heat and mass transfer with chemical reaction
in a flow system) and of effusion cooling of rocket nozzles, both
of which involve turbulent boundary-layer conditions .  author
emphasizes the tedious experimental problems involved in research
on boundary layers with blowing, and notes the desirability of
velocity distribution measurements, especially in turbulent injection
layers .  the observation that no good data on concentration
profiles in the case of the diffusion boundary layer have been
published may be an overstatement, since author's bibliography
overlooks the work of j. berger (/contribution a l'etude de l'injection
parietale,/ doctor's thesis, university of paris, memorial des
poudres 38 (annex), p. 1,. paris, imprimerie nationale, 1956) .
.I 345
.T
the interaction of shock waves with boundary layer
on a flat surface .
.A
barry,f.w., shapiro,a.h. and neumann,e.p.
.W
the interaction of shock waves with boundary layer
on a flat surface .
  the development of supersonic compressors, supersonic
diffusers, and high-speed aircraft points to the increasing
importance of the interaction between shock waves and boundary
layers .
  the experimental work reported here is intended to (1)
provide a better understanding of the nature of the shock
boundary-layer interaction, (2) serve as a guide and stimulus to theoretical
work, and (3) develop an empirical method for predicting the
effects of the interaction .
  experiments were performed on the reflection of an oblique
shock from a boundary layer on a flat surface at a mach number
of 2.05 .  the effects of shock strength and boundary-layer regime
were explored .
  the results are in the form of schlieren photographs,
constant-density contours found from interferometer photographs, and
static pressure distributions at the plate surface .
.I 346
.T
measurements of turbulent friction on a smooth flat plate in supersonic .
.A
unknown
.W
measurements of turbulent friction on a smooth flat plate in supersonic .
  direct measurements of supersonic local skin friction, using the
floating-element technique, are presented for mach numbers from
bulent flow and transition are emphasized, although some
measurements in the laminar regime are included .  the observed effect
of compressibility is to reduce the magnitude of turbulent skin
friction by a factor of two at a mach number of 4.5 and a
reynolds number of about 10 .
  the boundary-layer momentum-integral equation for constant
pressure is verified within a few per cent by two experimental
methods .  typical static pressure measurements are presented to
show that transition can be detected by observing disturbances
in pressure associated with changes in displacement thickness
of the boundary layer .
  it is found that the turbulent boundary layer cannot be defined
experimentally for values of less than about 2,000, where
is the momentum thickness .  for larger values of there is a
unique relationship between local friction coefficient and
momentum-thickness reynolds number at a fixed mach number .  the
appendix compares the present measurements at m = 2.5 with
experimental data from other sources .
.I 347
.T
boundary layer measurements in hypersonic flow .
.A
hill,f.k.
.W
boundary layer measurements in hypersonic flow .
  experimental data are presented on boundary-layer formation,
heat transfer, and skin-friction coefficient at mach numbers of
the wall of a conical nozzle in the presence of a favorable pressure
gradient and several rates of heat transfer .  the reynolds
number based on momentum thickness varied from 1,500 to 3,500 .
comparison is made with data at lower mach numbers and with
the semiempirical theory of von karman .  the existing data up
to mach numbers of nine indicate agreement to within 5 per
cent when compared with a form of the wilson theory, but it is
clear that the effects of heat transfer and pressure gradients
present problems which require extensive study and experiment in
the future .
.I 348
.T
turbulent boundary layer in compressible fluids .
.A
van driest,e.r.
.W
turbulent boundary layer in compressible fluids .
  the continuity, momentum, and energy differential equations
for turbulent flow of a compressible fluid are derived, and the
apparent turbulent stresses and dissipation function are
identified .  a general formula for skin friction, including heat
transfer to a flat plate, is developed for a thin turbulent boundary
layer in compressible fluids with zero pressure gradient .  curves
are presented giving skin-friction coefficients and heat-transfer
coefficients for air for various wall-to-free-stream temperature
ratios and free-stream mach numbers .
  in the special case when the boundary layer is insulated, this
general formula yields skin-friction coefficients higher than those
given by the von karman wall-property compressible-fluid
formula but lower than those given by the von karman
incompressible-fluid formula .  heat transfer from the boundary layer
to the plate generally increases the friction and heat-transfer
coefficients .
.I 349
.T
numerical solution of the boundary layer equations
without similarity assumptions .
.A
kramer,r.f. and lieberstein,h.
.W
numerical solution of the boundary layer equations
without similarity assumptions .
  the crocco transformation combined with a mangler
transformation is used to carry the boundary-layer problem for axially
symmetric blunt bodies into a form suitable for direct numerical
computation without introduction of similarity assumptions .
conditions which in the original problem appear at infinity now
are brought to a finite straight line, and the body is transformed
to a parallel line .  data can be generated on the stagnation line
the equations are a parabolic system of two second-order
equations, the boundary-value problem is analogous to the slab
problem for the heat equation .  an implicit difference equation is
used to reduce stability difficulties .  special techniques in
forming the difference equation result in a linear system of algebraic
equations to be solved on any given line of integration, and these
solutions are computed from recursion relations generated by
back substitution .  for bluntnosed bodies with approach flow
mach numbers greater than 8 (approximately), large
temperature gradients occur across a thin boundary layer of dissociated
gas, and it is necessary to use real-gas effects, approximated here
by certain fits to the gas tables .  a case is computed, however,
for a lower mach number approach flow using perfect-gas theory
to provide a standard against which similarity solutions may be
tested .
.I 350
.T
laminar jet mixing of two compressible fluids with heat release .
.A
s. i. pai
.W
laminar jet mixing of two compressible fluids with heat release .
the laminar jet mixing problems with heat release have been formulated .
a general discussion of the solution of these problems is also given .
the important parameters of these problems are brought out .  some
specific cases of the jet mixing problem, such as jet mixing of one
compressible fluid, isothermal jet mixing of two compressible fluids,
and isovel jet mixing of two compressible fluids with heat release, are
discussed in detail.
.I 351
.T
thermal distributions in jeffrey-hamel flows between nonparallel plane
walls .
.A
millsaps, k. and pohlhausen, k.
.W
thermal distributions in jeffrey-hamel flows between nonparallel plane
walls .
the authors give the exact solution for the thermal distributions for
the steady laminar flow of a viscous incompressible fluid between
non-parallel plane walls held at a constant temperature . the velocity
profiles are determined with the aid of jacobian elliptic functions by
using the jeffery-hamel solution of the hydrodynamic problem . it is
shown that in this special case the energy equation giving the
temperature profiles can be reduced to an ordinary linear differential
equation with variable coefficients . after the introduction of
dimensionless parameters, numerical solutions are given for diverging and
converging channels with total openings of 10degree for the possible
combinations of three reynolds numbers and five prandtl numbers .
.I 352
.T
on heat transfer over a sweat-cooled surface in laminar
compressible flow with a pressure gradient .
.A
murduchow,m.
.W
on heat transfer over a sweat-cooled surface in laminar
compressible flow with a pressure gradient .
  a simple expression is derived for the normal injection velocity
distribution theoretically required to maintain a given uniform
temperature along a porous surface in the laminar
boundary-layer region of a compressible flow with a given velocity
distribution outside of the boundary layer .  this expression is valid for
any given free-stream mach number but is based on a prandtl
number of unity and on the assumption that the viscosity
coefficient varies linearly with the temperature .  by using the
dorodnitsyn type of transformation, the variation of fluid
properties even in the case of zero mach number is taken into
account .  this study is of particular practical interest in
connection with the sweat-cooling of turbine blades and of airfoil surfaces
in high speed flow .  the method of analysis consists of applying
the karman-pohlhausen method to both the momentum and
energy boundary-layer equations and of using an additional heat
balance equation, involving the coolant temperature .  a
closed-form approximate solution of the equations is then derived .
numerical examples for flow in the immediate vicinity of a
stagnation point and for a typical type of flow over a turbine blade are
given .
.I 353
.T
the effect of helium injection at an axially symmetric stagnation
point .
.A
h. hoshizaki and h. j. smith
.W
the effect of helium injection at an axially symmetric stagnation
point .
an effective means of protecting the surface of a hypersonic re-entry
vehicle is to inject small quantities of a lightweight gas into the
boundary layer through a porous wall .  this process, which is known
as mass-transfer cooling, protects the surface in two ways .  first
of all, as the injected gas or coolant passes from the reservoir through
the wall to the surface, a considerable quantity of heat is absorbed as
its temperature is raised from the reservoir temperature to the wall
surface temperature .  characteristically, lightweight gases have
relatively high specific heats .
secondly, the transfer of mass and enthalpy by convection and diffusion
normal to the surface alters the characteristics of the boundary
layer in such a manner as to reduce the temperature gradient at the
wall, and, hence, the conductive heat transfer at the wall .  this is
sometimes referred to as the blowing effect .
.I 354
.T
laminar heat-transfer and pressure measurements over blunt-nosed
cones at large angle of attack .
.A
victor zakkay
.W
laminar heat-transfer and pressure measurements over blunt-nosed
cones at large angle of attack .
tests have been conducted at a mach number of 6, in the pibal hypersonic
facility, in order to determine the heat-transfer and pressure
distributions over a slender blunted cone at angles of attack of
erature ratio, stagnation to wall, was approximately 2.3 .  the model
tested has a sperical nose diameter of 1.0 in., a base diameter of 3.75
in., and a cone half-angle of 20 degrees .  the measurements were made
at 5 peripheral stations on the model .
in this note the experimental results at a 15 degree angle of attack
are presented .  a more detailed analysis of the results for all
angles of attack is presented in reference 1 .
.I 355
.T
the injection of air into the dissociated hypersonic laminar boundary
layer .
.A
sinclaire m. scala
.W
the injection of air into the dissociated hypersonic laminar boundary
layer .
in first approximation, dissociated air may be treated as a binary
mixture of air atoms and air molecules .  in order to include the
effects of mass transfer into the boundary layer, it becomes necessary
to introduce a third chemical species and hence a second diffusion
equation .  we have avoided this complexity by considering the injection
of air molecules into the boundary layer, and hence the theoretical
treatment is accomplished within the framework of a binary mixture gas .
.I 356
.T
on optimum nose curves for missiles in the super-aerodynamic
regime .
.A
tan,h.s.
.W
on optimum nose curves for missiles in the super-aerodynamic
regime .
  author shows that the differential equations defining the
minimum drag body shapes for free molecule flow that were developed
and numerically integrated by w. j. carter (amr 11 (1958), rev.
realized, however, that numerical or analytical integration of the
second-order differential equation is unnecessary since, for the
flow conditions considered, the first integral to the euler equation
can be written prior to the substitution of the expression defining
the pressure coefficient .
.I 357
.T
optimum nose shapes for missiles in the super-aerodynamic
region .
.A
carter,w.j.
.W
optimum nose shapes for missiles in the super-aerodynamic
region .
  the mechanics of the kinetic theory of gases is employed to
describe the drag force on the nose of a missile moving in the
super-aerodynamic region of the atmosphere .  three separate cases are
considered--ideal specular reflection, specular-type reflection
from a slightly rough surface, and surface absorption followed by
random emission of the striking molecules .  the calculus of
variations is employed to obtain the differential equation of the nose
shape which minimizes the drag force for each of the three cases .
the resulting differential equations are then solved by a numerical
procedure .  the drag coefficients for the optimum nose shapes are
likewise determined and these are compared with the drag
coefficients given by other nose shapes .  it is further shown that
the drag coefficients arising when specular-type reflections occur
are significantly dependent on the nose shape .  when surface
absorption followed by random emission occurs, the drag
coefficient is not strongly dependent on either the missile nose shape
or the fineness ratio of the nose .
.I 358
.T
on the model of the free shock separation, turbulent
boundary layer .
.A
mager,a.
.W
on the model of the free shock separation, turbulent
boundary layer .
  by free shock-separated boundary layers, one means that type of
separation where the flow downstream of the separation region is free to
adjust to any direction that may result from the shock-boundary-layer
interaction process .  a detailed model of the free shock-separated
turbulent boundary layer is postulated, and the pressure rise following
from this model is estimated and compared with experiments .  the
results are applied to the prediction of separation in an overexpanded
nozzle .
.I 359
.T
note on the hypersonic similarity law for an unyawed
cone .
.A
lees,l.
.W
note on the hypersonic similarity law for an unyawed
cone .
  it is now known that the hypersonic similarity law derived for
slender cones and ogival bodies under the assumption, is
applicable for mach numbers as low as 3 .  this note makes use of
a series development to infer the hypersonic similarity law for
unyawed cones from the taylor-maccoll differential equations and
associated boundary conditions .  a simple approximate formula
for the function of the similarity law is obtained,
and the drag function computed with this formula is compared
with kopal's numerical results and, for very slender cones, with
von karman's linearized formula .
.I 360
.T
lift on inclined bodies of revolution in hypersonic flow .
.A
grimminger, g., williams, e. p., and young, g.
.W
lift on inclined bodies of revolution in hypersonic flow .
the importance of body lift lies in the fact that at moderate angles of
attack and high mach number it can constitute an appreciable part of
the total lift of a winged missile . in this paper an attempt has been
made to analyze body lift in hypersonic flow by an approximate method
and, together with a correlation of existing experimental data, to
indicate the probable variation of body lift over a wide range of mach
numbers extending from low supersonic to hypersonic . the method of
analysis of hypersonic flow over inclined bodies of revolution employed
herein has been denoted as the hypersonic approximation . it is an
improvement on the newtonian corpuscular theory of aerodynamics, since it
considers the centrifugal forces resulting from the curved paths of the
air particles in addition to the impact /newtonian/ forces .
.I 361
.T
the flow of a viscous liquid past a flat plate at small
reynolds number .
.A
tomotika,s. and yosinobu,h.
.W
the flow of a viscous liquid past a flat plate at small
reynolds number .
  the authors repeat the earlier calculations of piercy
and winny (proc. roy. soc. london. ser. a. 140 (1933),
earlier works were known to be different from each other .
the careful analysis of the present authors shows that the
skin-friction coefficient up to the second approximation
agrees perfectly with that of piercy and winny .
.I 362
.T
three-dimensional effect of flutter in a real fluid .
.A
wen-hwa chu
.W
three-dimensional effect of flutter in a real fluid .
in ref. 1, an alternative semi-empirical formulation for flutter in a
real fluid is given .  for more accurate determination of the empirical
coefficients, the three-dimensional effect of finite span should be
taken into account . following reissner's approximation for
large-aspect-ratio rectangular wings, the boundary-value problem governing the
downwash w and the vorticity distribution .
.I 363
.T
an alternative formulation of the problem of flutter
in real fluids .
.A
chu,w.h. and abramson,h.n.
.W
an alternative formulation of the problem of flutter
in real fluids .
it is well known, in steady flow, that the actual lift curve
slope is somewhat less than that predicted by inviscid flow
theory, even at small angles of attack .  as the stall angle is
approached, the lift curve slope continually decreases and thus
deviates even more from the theoretical value .  pinkerton
employed the measured circulation to determine the pressure
distribution and found that the resulting prediction of the moment
is considerably improved over that given by the classical theory .
this amounts to replacing the conventional kutta-joukowski
condition with the condition that the total lift should agree with
the measured value, and this, in turn, completely determines the
flow pattern .  practically, this is accomplished by giving a
fictitious camber to the profile .  since potential flow theory is
valid outside of the boundary layer, once the boundary-layer
thickness is known, the potential flow may be corrected for the
displacement thickness and the viscous wake by appropriate
source distributions .  the boundary layer cannot be evaluated,
of course, until the potential flow is known and the circulation is
applied .  a criterion to determine the circulation, by
generalizing the kutta-joukowski condition, was proposed by preston
and spence by assuming that the pressure at the trailing edge
shall have the same value when determined from the
potential-flow values above and below the airfoil .  this procedure gives
qualitative information concerning viscous effects in steady
flow .
.I 364
.T
a method for analysing the insulating properties of
the laminar compressible boundary layer .
.A
libby,pa. and pallone,a.
.W
a method for analysing the insulating properties of
the laminar compressible boundary layer .
  in some cooling problems associated with high energy flows
it may be convenient to localize strongly the cooling, as for
example by injecting a coolant through an upstream porous strip,
and to depend on the insulating properties of the boundary layer
to reduce, or to eliminate completely the need for further cooling
on the surface downstream of the highly cooled section .  this
upstream cooling technique may be of interest in connection with
optical windows in hypersonic wind tunnels, and on radomes,
wings, and bodies of high-speed aircraft and missiles .
  in this paper a method for investigating the insulating
properties of a laminar compressible boundary layer on a two-
dimensional surface with zero heat transfer is presented .  the physical
situation considered thus corresponds to the case in which the
heat transfer downstream of the strongly cooled section is
completely eliminated .  of practical concern is how the
temperature of the uncooled surface varies in the downstream direction
from its low initial value and thus how the low energy layer
established by the upstream cooling insulates the downstream
surface .
  the karman integral method extended to both the momentum
and energy partial differential equations of the boundary layer
has been used .  the station, at which cooling and or injection
ceases, corresponds to a discontinuity in boundary conditions
and thus in solutions .  at this point the flux of mass, momentum,
and energy within the boundary layer has been made continuous
by the introduction of three additional parameters in the velocity
and stagnation enthalpy profiles .  thus the velocity and
stagnation enthalpy profiles have both been taken as sixth degree
polynomials .  the resulting two integral-differential equations
are then solved for two unknown functions of the distance along
the wall .  these two functions are related to the boundary-layer
thickness and to the wall temperature .  initial conditions
corresponding to a given initial wall temperature and an initial
boundary-layer thickness are prescribed .  exact closed-form solutions
for the case of zero axial pressure gradient are obtained .  for
flows with significant pressure gradients, numerical solutions
are required in general .  several numerical examples of practical
interest are presented .
.I 365
.T
the homogeneous boundary layer at an axisymmetric stagnation
point with large rates of injection .
.A
libby,p.a.
.W
the homogeneous boundary layer at an axisymmetric stagnation
point with large rates of injection .
  this report presents a theoretical analysis of the boundary
layer at an axisymmetric stagnation point with large rates of
air injection .  the results of a previous investigation indicated
that for localized mass transfer in the stagnation region, the
rates of injection are considerably greater than those usually
treated .  the exact stagnation-point boundary-layer equations
are integrated numerically for an approximate representation
of the gas properties .  the two-point boundary conditions are
treated in a new manner which is useful for various
boundary-layer and mixing problems .  the exact solutions indicate that
for large rates of injection the boundary layer is closely
represented by an inner isothermal shear flow and by and exterior,
relatively thin region, in which the flow variables change to their
free-stream values .  an integral method based on profiles
suggested by the exact solutions is developed and shown to lead
to accurate predictions of the integral thicknesses which are
of interest for a study of the downstream influence of the
stagnation-point mass transfer .
.I 366
.T
helium injection into the boundary layer at an axisymmetric
stagnation point .
.A
fox,h. and libby,p.a.
.W
helium injection into the boundary layer at an axisymmetric
stagnation point .
  this report presents a theoretical analysis of the boundary
layer at an axisymmetric stagnation point with large rates of
helium injection .  the exact stagnation-point boundary-layer
equations are integrated numerically with approximate
representations of the gas properties .  the treatment of the
two-point boundary-value problem employed herein is shown to be
useful for various boundary-layer and mixing problems .  the
exact solutions indicate that for large rates of injection the
boundary layer can be represented by a thick, inner layer of
constant shear, temperature, and composition and by a relatively
thin outer region in which the flow variables adjust to their
free-stream values .  an inviscid-flow model is shown to lead to
accurate predictions of this shear layer and will thus provide
sufficiently accurate profiles for use in the study of the downstream
influence of stagnation-point mass transfer .  the heat transfer
to the stagnation point is also considered .  tabulations of the
eigenvalues for a variety of wall conditions and injection rates
are given .
.I 367
.T
control system and analysis and design via the second method of
lyapunov .
.A
kalman, r. e. and bertram, j. e.
.W
control system and analysis and design via the second method of
lyapunov .
the/second method/of lyapunov is the most general approach currently in
the theory of stability of dynamic systems . after a rigorous exposition
 of the fundamental concepts of this theory, applications are made to/a/
stability of linear stationary, linear nonslationary, and nonlinear
systems,./b/estimation of transient behavior,./c/control-system
optimization,./d/design of relay servos . the discussion is essentially
self-contained, with emphasis on the thorough development of the
principal ideas and mathematical tools . only systems governed by
differential equations are treated here . systems governed by difference
equations are the subject of a companion paper .
.I 368
.T
some problems of polar missile control .
.A
best,d.
.W
some problems of polar missile control .
  a polar-controlled missile is one in which manoeuvre
is carried out by rotations about roll and pitch axes,
that is, in the manner of a conventional aeroplane .  this
paper discusses some problems in the application of this
form of control to homing missiles .
  in comparison with the alternative cartesian
configuration, this method presents some special design
problems .  in the former case, it is often possible to
resolve the motion into two planes and consider the
pitch and yaw control systems as independent
two-dimensional problems .  this simplification is not
possible in the case of polar control and it is usually
necessary to consider the whole three-dimensional
system .  the equations of motion which result are, in
general, not susceptible to analysis .  because of this,
the design of control systems requires extensive use of
simulators .
.I 369
.T
an approximate solution of the supersonic blunt body
problem for prescribed arbitrary axisymmetric shapes .
.A
traugott,s.
.W
an approximate solution of the supersonic blunt body
problem for prescribed arbitrary axisymmetric shapes .
  the integral method of belotserkovskii has been carried out to
the first approximation for arbitrary blunt axisymmetric bodies
in supersonic or hypersonic flight .  this method is direct, in
that it gives the surface-pressure distribution and shock shape for
a prescribed body .  results obtained by numerical integration
for several body shapes at several mach numbers are compared
to experimental results with good agreement .  it is also shown
that the method can be successfully applied to pointed bodies
with attached shock .  in the stagnation region, simple
relationships are found from the equations of the first approximation
which connect the surface-velocity gradient, shock curvature,
shock-detachment distance, and body curvature .  these
relations are also correlated with experiment for a variety of shapes
as a function of mach number .  the correlations permit a rapid
estimate of the stagnation-point velocity gradient, important for
heat-transfer calculations, for any blunt body from the shock
stand-off distance .  a method for a higher approximation is
described, for which, in contrast to the higher approximations of
belotserkovskii, a large number of simultaneous total differential
equations with unknown parameters does not occur .  one form
of this method has been studied numerically .  results are given
which, though only partially successful, indicate the amount of
improvement to be expected from a higher approximation .
.I 370
.T
theoretical pressure distribution on a hemisphere-cylinder
combination .
.A
anthony casaccio
.W
theoretical pressure distribution on a hemisphere-cylinder
combination .
in recent years great use has been made of approximate methods for
the determination of the pressure distribution on blunt-nosed bodies
and afterbodies at high mach numbers .  for quasi-spherical bodies
it has been suggested that modified newtonian theory in combination
with a prandtl-meyer expansion be used on the nose portion, the two
laws being matched at the point where the pressure gradients are equal .
no simple approximation, however, has been found for flat-nosed bodies .
as for the pressure distribution on the afterbody, the blast-wave
analogy has been suggested for general nose shapes but particular
afterbody profiles .
the purpose of the present note is to compare these approximate
estimates with a more accurate determination of the flow field about
a hemisphere-cylinder in an ideal gas flow .  it was felt that since
experimental investigations in air at this mach number are scarce
and very difficult to obtain, the comparison would be of interest .  the
basis of comparison is the flow field as it results from a numerical
integration of the exact equations governing the motion of the ideal
fluid .
.I 371
.T
note on tip-bluntness effects in the supersonic and
hypersonic regimes .
.A
bennett,f.d.
.W
note on tip-bluntness effects in the supersonic and
hypersonic regimes .
in a recent letter, m. h. bertram presents some data on
flows at m = 6.85 around 10 half-angle cones with blunted
tips .  since the demarcation between the supersonic and
hypersonic regimes is not sharp and since one expects hypersonic flows
to be generally similar to those at lower mach numbers--
especially where viscous effects do not predominate throughout the
entire field of interest--it is of some value to compare bertram's
results with those obtained by giese and bergdolt for 15
half-angle cones at m = 2.45 .  following the observation by charters
and stein that drag coefficient measurements on blunted cones
imply a reynolds number effect, giese and bergdolt study the
convergence to conical flow of the perturbed flow about a cone
with truncated tip .  they employ the mach-zehnder
interferometer and the conical flow criterion as analytical tools .
.I 372
.T
an experimental investigation of flow about simple
blunt bodies at a nominal mach number of 5. 8.
.A
oliver,r.e.
.W
an experimental investigation of flow about simple
blunt bodies at a nominal mach number of 5. 8.
  an experimental investigation was
conducted in the galcit hypersonic
wind tunnel to determine flow characteristics
for a series of blunt bodies at a
nominal mach number of 5.8 and free-stream
reynolds numbers per in. of
measured values for the pressure
coefficient distributions are compared with
a modified newtonian
expression .  the agreement is very good for the
three-dimensional bodies and is
fair for the circular cylinder transverse to the
free-stream flow direction .  a
complete report of the investigation is given in
a galcit hypersonic wind
tunnel memorandum .
.I 373
.T
the generalized expansion method and its application
to bodies travelling at high supersonic airspeeds .
.A
eggers,a.j., savin,r.c. and syvertson,c.a.
.W
the generalized expansion method and its application
to bodies travelling at high supersonic airspeeds .
  it is demonstrated that the shock-expansion method can be
generalized to treat a large class of hypersonic flows, only one of
which is flow about airfoils .  this generalized method predicts
the whole flow field, including shock-wave curvatures and
resulting vorticity, providing that (1) disturbances originating on
the surface of an object are largely absorbed in shock waves with
which they interact and (2) disturbances associated with the
divergence of stream lines in tangent planes to the surface are of
secondary importance compared to those associated with the
curvature of stream lines in planes normal to the surface .  it is
shown that these conditions may be met in three-dimensional as
well as two-dimensional hypersonic flows .  when they are met,
surface streamlines may be taken as geodesics, which, in turn,
may be related to the geometry of the surface .
  the validity of the generalized shock-expansion method for
three-dimensional hypersonic flows is checked by comparing
predictions of theory with experiment for the surface pressures and
bow shock waves of bodies of revolution .  the bodies treated
are two ogives having fineness ratios of 3 and 5 .  tests were
conducted at mach numbers from 2.7 to 6.3 and angles of attack up
to 15 degrees in the 10- by 14-in. supersonic wind tunnel of the
ames aeronautical laboratory .  at the lower angles of attack,
theory and experiment approach agreement when the ratio of
mach number to fineness ratio--that is, the hypersonic
similarity parameter--exceeds 1 .  at the larger angles of attack, theory
tends to break down, as would be expected, on the leeward sides
of the bodies .
  as a final point, it is inquired if the two-dimensionality of
inviscid hypersonic flows has any counterpart in hypersonic
boundary-layer flows .  the question is answered in the
affirmative, and results of experiment are employed to provide a partial
check of this conclusion .
.I 374
.T
an investigation of optimum zoom climb techniques .
.A
kelly,h.j.
.W
an investigation of optimum zoom climb techniques .
  the problem of optimal zoom climb maneuvering of a turbojet
aircraft has been investigated using the mayer formulation of the
calculus of variations .  the euler-lagrange equations governing
optimum symmetric flight have been integrated numerically by
digital computation .
  discontinuities in thrust arising from turbojet afterburner
blowout have been treated, and conditions which must be
satisfied across the interface generated by the discontinuity have been
derived .
  arbitrary control techniques have been compared with the
optimum, and it has been found that performance is relatively
insensitive to piloting technique unless a time limitation is
imposed which requires high maneuvering load factors .
.I 375
.T
steady flow in the laminar boundary layer of a gas .
.A
illingworth,c.r.
.W
steady flow in the laminar boundary layer of a gas .
if the boundary-layer equations for a gas are
transformed by mises's transformation, as
was done by karman   tsion for the flow
along a flat plate of a gas with unit prandtl
number, the computation of solutions is
simplified, and use may be made of previously
computed solutions for an incompressible fluid .
for any value of the prandtl number, and
any variation of the viscosity with the temperature
t, after the method has been applied
to flow along a flat plate (a problem otherwise treated
by crocco), the flow near the forward
stagnation point of a cylinder is calculated with
dissipation neglected, both with the effect of
gravity on the flow neglected and with this effect
retained for vertical flow past a horizontal
cylinder .  the approximations involved by the neglect
of gravity are considered generally,
and the cross-drift is calculated when a horizontal
stream flows past a vertical surface .
when, and the boundary is heat-insulated,
it is shown that the boundary-layer
equations for a gas may be made identical, whatever be
the main stream, with the
boundary-layer equations for an incompressible fluid with a certain,
determinable, main stream .  the
method is also applied to free convection at a flat plate
variation with altitude of the state of the surrounding
fluid neglected) and to laminar flow in
plane wakes, but for plane jets the conditions,
previously imposed by howarth,
are also imposed here in order to obtain simple solutions .
.I 376
.T
transformation between compressible and incompressible
boundary layer equations .
.A
van le,n.
.W
transformation between compressible and incompressible
boundary layer equations .
it is proposed to show that the boundary-layer equation of
compressible flow can be reduced to that of incompressible
flow .  such work was initiated by stewartson and by rott and
crabtree .  in the following some of the restrictions imposed by
references 1 and 2 will be removed, and it will be shown that the
transformation from compressible boundary layer to
incompressible boundary layer can be applied to the laminar, as well as
turbulent, case .  a direct method will be used for this purpose .
.I 377
.T
a turbulent analog of the stewartson-illingworth transformation .
.A
culick,f.e. and hill,j.
.W
a turbulent analog of the stewartson-illingworth transformation .
  the stewartson-illingworth transformation is applied to the
integral momentum equation for compressible boundary-layer
flow, leaving the x-coordinate transformation unspecified,
however .  it is shown that the transformed equation is the integral
momentum equation for incompressible flow if (a) the effect of
compressibility on the boundary-layer shape parameter h can be
represented by
and (b) the x-coordinate transformation is chosen to be suitably
related to the ratio of skin-friction coefficients in compressible
and incompressible flows .
  experimental evidence is presented which shows that
condition (a) is satisfied for turbulent boundary layers up to m = 5 .
an x-transformation is chosen according to (b) and an equation is
presented which gives the turbulent boundary-layer growth in
compressible flow in terms of a simple quadrature .  the
predictions of this equation are then compared with some
measurements on wind-tunnel nozzles .
.I 378
.T
engineering relations for friction and heat transfer to surfaces in high
 velocity flow .
.A
eckert, e.
.W
engineering relations for friction and heat transfer to surfaces in high
 velocity flow .
in calculations of thermodynamic heating for high speed missiles
parameters have been used based on relationships which hold for
constant-property fluids . the validity of this procedure has been verified
recently in a survey of heat transfer in which a relationship for the
reference temperature was developed . a calculation procedure for
laminar and turbulent boundary layers, based on this relationship, is
given .
.I 379
.T
reverse flow and variational theorems for lifting surfaces
in nonstationary compressible flow .
.A
flax,a.h.
.W
reverse flow and variational theorems for lifting surfaces
in nonstationary compressible flow .
  a reverse-flow theorem for compressible nonsteady flow, valid
within the limits of linearized theory, is derived .  this theorem
gives a general class of relations between linearized solutions for
lifting surfaces in direct and reverse flow .  based on the same
considerations used to establish the theorem, an adjoint variational
principle, which may be useful in approximate solutions of
non-steady lifting surface problems, is obtained .  to illustrate the
uses of the reverse-flow theorem, it is applied to the determination
of relations between aerodynamic coefficients in direct and
reverse flow and to the obtaining of influence functions for total
lift, pitching moment, and rolling moment for a wing oscillating
with arbitrary motion and surface deformation, in terms of the
pressure distributions for simpler cases in reverse flow .
.I 380
.T
effect of quasi-steady air forces on incompressible
bending-torsion flutter .
.A
dugundi,j.
.W
effect of quasi-steady air forces on incompressible
bending-torsion flutter .
  explicit solutions are obtained for the bending-torsion flutter
of a two-dimensional airfoil in incompressible flow under the
assumptions that the theodorsen function, c(k) is set equal to a
real constant, and the diagonal virtual mass terms are negligible .
for the case of small bending to torsion frequency ratio, a
comparison is made of these quasi-steady solutions with an
earlier empirical expression suggested by theodorsen and garrick
for the nonsteady case, and the effect of the c(k) function is
indicated .  the importance of the c.g. location for these small
cases is re-emphasized, and the possibility of flutter at zero
air speed is indicated .
.I 381
.T
the axisymmetric boundary layer on a long thin cylinder .
.A
glauert,m.b. and lighthill,m.j.
.W
the axisymmetric boundary layer on a long thin cylinder .
the laminar boundary layer in axial flow about
a long thin cylinder is investigated by two
methods .  one (2) is a pohlhausen method,
based on a velocity profile chosen to represent
conditions near the surface as accurately as
possible .  the other (3) is an asymptotic series
solution, valid far enough downstream from
the nose for the boundary-layer thickness to
have become large compared with the cylinder
radius .  another series solution (due to seban,
bond and kelly) is known, valid near enough
to the nose for the boundary layer to be thin
compared with the cylinder radius .  the
pohlhausen solution shows good agreement with
both series, near and far from the nose, and
enables an interpolation to be made (4) between
them in the extensive range of distances from
the nose for which neither is applicable .  the
final recommended curves, for the variation
along the cylinder of skin friction,
boundary-layer displacement area and momentum defect
area, are displayed in graphical and tabular
form (figure 1 and table 1) and are expected to
be correct to within about 2 .
  the velocity near the wall is closely proportional
to the logarithm of the distance from the
axis,. this is the profile used in the pohlhausen
method .  the analogy with the distribution
of mean velocity in turbulent flow over a flat
plate is discussed at the end of 2 .
.I 382
.T
a note on the laminar boundary layer on a circular cylinder in
axial incompressible flow .
.A
howard r. kelly
.W
a note on the laminar boundary layer on a circular cylinder in
axial incompressible flow .
a correction is made for the equation to compute the ratio
of the displacement thickness on a cylinder to the corresponding
thickness on a flat plate .
.I 383
.T
integration of the boundary layer equations for a plane in compressible
flow with heat transfer .
.A
meksyn, d.
.W
integration of the boundary layer equations for a plane in compressible
flow with heat transfer .
the equations of motion of compressible viscous flow with vanishing
pressure gradient past a plane are integrated in semi-convergent
expressions, for the case when the physical constants depend on
temperature and the prandtl number is close to unity .
simple expressions are obtained for the temperature and velocity
distributions in the boundary layer, the drag coefficient, and their
dependence on the physical constants,.they contain the well-known results
and several new ones .
for the case when the temperature of the boundary is either above, or
not much below, the temperature of the main flow, the results obtained
closely agree with crocco's numerical computations .
.I 384
.T
application of second-order shock-expansion theory
to several types of bodies of revolution .
.A
lavender,r.e. and deep,r.a.
.W
application of second-order shock-expansion theory
to several types of bodies of revolution .
  second-order shock-expansion theory is utilized to obtain equations
for the initial normal force curve slope, initial pitching moment curve
slope, and zero-lift wave drag for several type bodies of revolution .
bodies considered are the cone-cylinder, cone-cylinder-frustum,
cone-cylinder-frustum-booster, cone-frustum, and cone-frustum booster .
.I 385
.T
on a generalised porous-wall ?couette type? flow .
.A
lilley,g.m.
.W
on a generalised porous-wall ?couette type? flow .
  in a recent paper, the problem of a /couette-type/ flow in
which the fixed wall is porous has been considered .  the
results quoted in the above reference can be obtained rigorously
by the method stated below in which a different interpretation to
one of the parameters is made .
.I 386
.T
a generalised porous-wall ?couette type? flow .
.A
cramer,k.r.
.W
a generalised porous-wall ?couette type? flow .
  recently, it was observed that the two existing
boundary-layer texts (references 1 and 2) did not contain a solution
for the case of couette flow with a constant, uniformly
distributed suction or blowing .  thus, the following analysis
considers a /couette-type/ flow between a stationary flat surface and
a slightly inclined flat plate moving at a constant velocity .  in
addition, the flow is subjected to a constant, uniformly distributed
suction or blowing at the fixed surface .
.I 387
.T
heat transfer for laminar flow in an annulus with porous
wall .
.A
inman,r.m.
.W
heat transfer for laminar flow in an annulus with porous
wall .
  temperature profiles and heat-transfer rates of established
incompressible flow through an annulus channel with porous walls
of constant temperatures are determined at different injection rates .
axial conduction and viscous dissipation are, as usual, neglected .
injecting fluid is tacitly assumed to have the same temperature as
the porous wall .
.I 388
.T
the pressure gradient induced by shear flow past a
flat plate .
.A
glauert,m.b.
.W
the pressure gradient induced by shear flow past a
flat plate .
  article is a continuation of an earlier note on papers by li
on a semiinfinite plate in a uniform shear flow .  li had deduced
from the form of his equations that stream vorticity caused an
induced pressure gradient in the flow .  later papers by li and
murray (amr 15(1962), rev. 7157) support the induced pressure
gradient theory .  the author notes, however, that the mathematics used
by li and murray are not acceptable and the problem thus not
resolved .  the present note sets up simple models of complete flows
examinable by elementary means .  author holds that analyses
demonstrate conclusively that no pressure gradient is induced in
the boundary layer on a flat plate in a limited region of shear flow .
he notes that the original question in the case of unbounded shear
remains obscure--and anyway an unlimited shear layer is not of
great practical importance .
.I 389
.T
simple shear flow past a flat plate in a compressible
viscous fluid .
.A
li,t.y.
.W
simple shear flow past a flat plate in a compressible
viscous fluid .
  by transformation of variables, the problem of a simple shear flow of
a compressible fluid over a flat plate is reduced to the corresponding
problem for an incompressible fluid .  the prandtl number of the
compressible fluid is assumed to be unity and its viscosity to be a linear
function of temperature .
.I 390
.T
some panel-flutter studies using piston theory .
.A
johns,d.j.
.W
some panel-flutter studies using piston theory .
  the use of piston theory was recently advocated for
supersonic aeroelastic analyses, including the problem of panel flutter,
and this has stimulated the investigation reported here .
  linear piston theory is mainly considered, but some effects of
introducing higher order terms are discussed .
  flutter of rectangular simply supported panels and of
elliptically shaped clamped-edge panels is considered, and some
justification is provided for the use of /static/ aerodynamic forces
and the neglect of aerodynamic damping .  hence, it is concluded
that ackeret loading gives more exact results than piston theory .
  solution of the flutter equations is made by applying galerkin's
method to a rayleigh-type analysis using assumed modes of
deformation .
.I 391
.T
flutter of rectangular simply supported panels at high
supersonic speeds .
.A
hedgepeth,j.m.
.W
flutter of rectangular simply supported panels at high
supersonic speeds .
  the problem of panel flutter of rectangular simply supported
plates subjected to supersonic flow over one surface is treated
theoretically .  the assumption is made, and subsequently
verified, that the /static/ approximation to the aerodynamic flutter
forces yields flutter boundaries with satisfactory accuracy for
mach numbers greater than about 2 .  two panel flutter analyses
are performed using this static approximation in conjunction with
thin-plate theory--one employs aerodynamic strip theory, the
other aerodynamic surface theory .  the influence of mach
number, dynamic pressure, panel aspect ratio, and midplane
stress on the panel thickness required to prevent flutter is
determined for extensive ranges of these parameters .
.I 392
.T
natural frequencies of rectangular plates with edges
elastically restrained against rotation .
.A
jogarao,v. and lakshmikantham,c.
.W
natural frequencies of rectangular plates with edges
elastically restrained against rotation .
  plates with attachments to heavier members along the
edges can be described as having edges elastically restrained
against rotation, in many cases uniformly along each edge .  at
the edges, setting slope, when is the edge bending
moment with always positive, the elastic restraint can be
analytically defined with describing respectively,
clamped and simply supported edges .  in this note natural
frequencies of such plates are calculated mainly following the
nomenclature of dana young .
.I 393
.T
the shear flow along a flat plate with uniform suction .
.A
sakurai,t.
.W
the shear flow along a flat plate with uniform suction .
  recently, several authors have investigated the boundary
layer in a shear flow .  in this note, an exact solution of the
navier-stokes equations will be presented, which represents the
boundary layer along an infinite flat plate with uniform suction
situated in a shear flow .
.I 394
.T
the viscous flow near a stagnation point when the external flow has
uniform vorticity .
.A
j. t. stuart
.W
the viscous flow near a stagnation point when the external flow has
uniform vorticity .
in view of the recent controversy between li and glauert on the nature
of the solution of the boundary-layer equations when the external
flow is rotational, it seems worthwhile to draw attention to a certain
exact solution of the navier-stokes equations which lends support to
glauert's point of view .
.I 395
.T
new methods in heat flow analysis with application
to flight structures .
.A
biot,m.a.
.W
new methods in heat flow analysis with application
to flight structures .
  new methods are presented for the analysis of transient heat
flow in complex structures, leading to drastic simplifications in
the calculation and the possibility of including nonlinear and
surface effects .  these methods are in part a direct application of
some general variational principles developed earlier for linear
thermodynamics .  they are further developed in the
particular case of purely thermal problems to include surface and
boundary-layer heat transfer, nonlinear systems with
temperature-dependent parameters, and radiation .  the concepts of
thermal potential, dissipation function, and generalized thermal
force are introduced, leading to ordinary differential equations
of the lagrangian type for the thermal flow field .  because of the
particular nature of heat flow phenomena, compared with
dynamics, suitable procedures must be developed in order to formulate
each problem in the simplest way .  this is done by treating a
number of examples .  the concepts of penetration depth and
transit time are introduced and discussed in connection with
one-dimensional flow .  application of the general method to the
heating of a slab, with temperature-dependent heat capacity,
shows a substantial difference between the heating and cooling
processes .  an example of heat flow analysis of a supersonic wing
structure by the present method is also given and requires only
extremely simple calculations .  the results are found to be in
good agreement with those obtained by the classical and much
more elaborate procedures .
.I 396
.T
variational and lagrangian thermodynamics of thermal
convection-fundamental shortcomings of the heat transfer
coefficient .
.A
biot,m.a.
.W
variational and lagrangian thermodynamics of thermal
convection-fundamental shortcomings of the heat transfer
coefficient .
  extension of previous analyses, indicating the possibility of
extending the thermodynamics of irreversible processes to systems
which are not in the vicinity of an equilibrium state and for which
onsager's relations are not verified .  this involves generalizations
beyond the narrow field of heat transfer and to principles of wider
range than those of current nonequilibrium thermodynamics .
.I 397
.T
a sublayer for fluid injection into the incompressible
turbulent boundary layer .
.A
turcotte,d.l.
.W
a sublayer for fluid injection into the incompressible
turbulent boundary layer .
  a sublayer region is introduced in which the intensity of
turbulence grows at a prescribed rate .  the decrease in wall shear
stress due to fluid injection into the boundary layer is found under
the hypothesis that the effect of injection is restricted to the
sublayer region .  experimental measurements of the velocity
profiles with fluid injection substantiate this hypothesis .  the
theoretical decrease in wall shear stress is in good agreement
with experiment,. the solution is particularly simple and for small
values of the injection parameter it contains no arbitrary
parameters .  the theory provides a similarity parameter which differs
from the one in general use .
.I 398
.T
heat transfer in turbulent shear flow .
.A
rannie,w.d.
.W
heat transfer in turbulent shear flow .
  the problems of heat transfer in turbulent shear flow along a
smooth wall are discussed from the point of view of von karman's
well-known 1939 paper on the analogy between fluid friction and
heat transfer .  methods for extending the analysis to higher
prandtl numbers are suggested .
.I 399
.T
conduction of heat in composite slabs .
.A
jaeger, j. c.
.W
conduction of heat in composite slabs .
a method of calculating the total quantity of heat that passes through a
 unit area from zero time to time t is developed . allowance is made for
 surface resistance by regarding each contact resistance as an
additional layer of the appropriate thermal resistance and zero heat
capacity
.I 400
.T
buckling stress of clamped rectangular plates in shear .
.A
budiansky,b. and connor,r.w.
.W
buckling stress of clamped rectangular plates in shear .
  by consideration of antisymmetrical, as well as symmetrical,
buckling configurations, the theoretical shear buckling stresses of
clamped rectangular flat plates are evaluated more correctly than in
previous work .  the results given, which represent the average of upper
and lower-limit solutions obtained by the lagrangian multiplier method,
are within percent of the true buckling stresses .
.I 401
.T
inviscid hypersonic airflows with coupled non-equilibrium
processes .
.A
hall,j.g., eschenroeder,a.w. and marrone,p.v.
.W
inviscid hypersonic airflows with coupled non-equilibrium
processes .
  analyses have been made of the effects of coupled chemical rate
processes in external inviscid hypersonic airflows at high enthalpy
levels .  exact (numerical) solutions have been obtained by the
inverse method for inviscid airflow over a near-spherical nose
under flight conditions where substantial nonequilibrium prevails
through the nose region .  typical conditions considered include
nose radii of the order of 1 ft at an altitude of 250,000 ft and
velocities of 15,000 and 23,000 ft per sec .
  the results illustrate the general importance of the coupling
among the reactions considered .  these included
dissociation-recombination, bimolecular-exchange, and ionization reactions .
the exact solutions show the bimolecular, no exchange reactions
to be important in blunt-nose flow for the kinetics of no and n,
as they are in the case of a plane shock wave .  an important
difference between blunt-nose flow and plane shock flow,
however, is the gasdynamic expansion in the curved shock layer of the
former .  this expansion reduces post-shock reaction rates .  as a
consequence, in the regime studied the oxygen and nitrogen-atom
concentrations tend to freeze in the nose region at levels below
those for infinite-rate equilibrium .  the reduction below the
equilibrium dissociation level can be large, particularly for
nitrogen dissociation at higher velocities .
  in the regime considered, the chemical kinetics are dominated
by two-body collision processes .  the inviscid nose flow,
including coupled nonequilibrium phenomena, is thus amenable to
binary scaling for a given velocity .  the binary scaling is
demonstrated for a range of altitude and scale by correlation of the
exact solutions for given velocity and a constant product of
ambient density and nose radius .  this similitude, which can
also scale viscous nonequilibrium and radiation phenomena in the
shock layer, provides a useful flexibility for hypersonic testing
where it is applicable .
  the afterbody inviscid-flow problem is briefly discussed in the
light of the results for the nose flow .
.I 402
.T
magnetohydrodynamics shocks .
.A
de hoffman,f. and teller,e.
.W
magnetohydrodynamics shocks .
  a mathematical treatment of the coupled motion of
hydrodynamic flow and electromagnetic fields is
given .  two simplifying assumptions are introduced ..  first,
the conductivity of the medium is infinite, and
second, the motion is described by a plane shock wave .
various orientations of the plane of the shock and
the magnetic field are discussed separately, and the
extreme relativistic and unrelativistic behavior is
examined .  special consideration is given to the behavior
of weak shocks, that is, of sound waves .  it is
interesting to note that the waves degenerate into common
sound waves and into common electromagnetic
waves in the extreme cases of very weak and very strong
magnetic fields .
.I 403
.T
magnetohydrodynamic shock waves .
.A
helger,l.
.W
magnetohydrodynamic shock waves .
  an interpretation of the de hoffman-teller shock-wave
equations for an infinitely conducting
medium is given analogous to the classical interpretation of
the ordinary hydrodynamic shock-wave
equations of rankine and hugoniot .  two cases of interest
are considered as a consequence of this theory .
it is shown that weak magnetic fields in interstellar clouds
will be amplified, and, if external mechanisms
are available to reduce the compressional effects of shock
waves, the field will reach a value,
where p is the pressure .  also, some aspects of the internal
motions of prominences are considered ,. it is
shown that gauss will yield results in accord with
the observational material .
.I 404
.T
two dimensional transonic flow past airfoils .
.A
kuo,y.a.
.W
two dimensional transonic flow past airfoils .
  this report concerns the problem of constructing solutions for
transonic flows over symmetric airfoils .  the aspect of the problem
emphasized is, of necessity, not how to form a solution for compressible
flow but how to simplify the initial phase of the problem, namely, the
mapping of the incompressible flow .  in the case of the symmetric
joukowski airfoil without circulation, the mapping is relatively simple,
but the coefficients in the power series are difficult to evaluate .  as
a result, the problem requires simplification .  instead of the exact
incompressible flow past the airfoil, an approximate flow is used, which
is derived from a combination of source and sink .  this flow differs
only slightly from the exact one when the thickness is small .  by the
same method, the flow with circulation is also considered .
  after the incompressible-flow functions are approximated in this
fashion, the numerical calculation of the corresponding compressible
flow, by the hodograph theory, does not present any
essential difficulty .
.I 405
.T
tables of thermal properties of gases .
.A
joseph hilsenrath, chalres beckett, william bendict, liila fano, harold
.W
tables of thermal properties of gases .
tables of thermodynamic and transport properties
of air, argon, carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, hydrogen,
nitrogen, oxygen, and steam .
.I 406
.T
on the behaviour of boundary layers at supersonic speeds .
.A
unknown
.W
on the behaviour of boundary layers at supersonic speeds .
this paper considers the implications of recent advances in knowledge of
 the behaviour of boundary layers in supersonic flow . only the simplest
 case is considered-dashthat of the two-dimensional boundary layer on a
flat plate, with nominal zero longitudinal pressure and temperature
gradients .
it is shown that the empirical/intermediate enthalpy/used with success
in approximations for skin friction, etc., of laminar boundary layers is
closely the same as the mean enthalpy with respect to velocity .
furthermore, the mean enthalpics of laminar and turbulent boundary
layers may be the same . a nonrigorous approach is made to the problems
of self-induced pressure gradients, and the indications are that their
effects on laminar skin friction, etc., may become noticeable at mach
numbers greater than 5 and they increase as the surface temperature
builds up towards zero heat-transfer conditions . the effects with
turbulent boundary layers may not be so severe .
finally, the results are applied to give an idea of the magnitude of the
drag and aerodynamic heating problems up to m 10, and one result is
that, if there is any conflict at the higher mach numbers between
surface conditions required for high radiative emissivity and those
which may be thought necessary for preserving a laminar boundary layer,
then it may be better to choose the former .
.I 407
.T
stationary convection flow of an electrically conducting
liquid between parallel plates in a magnetic field .
.A
gershuni,g.z. and shukhovitskii,e.m.
.W
stationary convection flow of an electrically conducting
liquid between parallel plates in a magnetic field .
  a study is made of the stationary convection
of an electrically conducting liquid in the space
between two parallel plates, heated to different
temperatures, in the presence of a magnetic
field .  the distribution of velocity, temperature,
and induced fields are found, and the convective
heat flow is calculated .
.I 408
.T
on convective motion of a conducting fluid between
parallel vertical plates in a magnetic field .
.A
regirer,s.a.
.W
on convective motion of a conducting fluid between
parallel vertical plates in a magnetic field .
  stationary convective motion of a conducting fluid
between vertical parallel plates in a
magnetic field is considered .  an exact solution of the
magnetohydrodynamic equations is
obtained for the case of a constant vertical temperature
gradient .  the critical value of
grasshof's number is determined for the case when the
temperature of both plates is the same .
.I 409
.T
on the base pressure resulting from the interaction of a supersonic
external stream with a sonic or subsonic jet .
.A
chow, w. l.
.W
on the base pressure resulting from the interaction of a supersonic
external stream with a sonic or subsonic jet .
it is shown that the two-dimensional base pressure problems relating to
base bleed into the wake of blunt-trailing-edge airfoils, or the
interaction between an external supersonic or sonic slipstream with a
sonic or subsonic jet stream of a jet engine, can be calculated by
theoretical considerations . constant-pressure, isoenergetic, turbulent
mixing between the streams and the stagnant fluid in the wake is
assumed . the theoretical calculations are in good agreement with the
experimental results .
.I 410
.T
the supersonic flow about a blunt body of revolution
for gases at chemical equilibrium .
.A
gravalos,f.g., edelflet,i.h. and emmons,h.
.W
the supersonic flow about a blunt body of revolution
for gases at chemical equilibrium .
  the supersonic flow about a blunt body of
revolution for gases at chemical
equilibrium .  a method to determine the shock
wave, and its location, about a body
of revolution moving at supersonic speeds is given .
the method provides also the means
to compute the flow characteristics in the shock layer .
the fluid in which the motion
takes place is assumed to be in chemical equilibrium
within the shock layer ,. its
thermochemical properties must be known .  the essential
new features of the method are ..
a) it solves the direct problem, i. e., the initial data
are the conditions upstream and
the body shape ,. b) the integration of the fundamental
equations is done in the physical
plane and the difficulties inherent to other, less direct,
mathematical formulations
of the problem are avoided .  a physical interpretation of
the method is made which
is in accord with the analytical definition of the problem .
.I 411
.T
data on shape and location of detached shock waves
in cones and sphere .
.A
herberle,j.w., wood,g.p. and gooderum,p.b.
.W
data on shape and location of detached shock waves
in cones and sphere .
  accurate experimental data are given on the shape and the location
of detached shock waves on cones and spheres at mach numbers from 1.17
to 1.81 .  the data are correlated to obtain equations that describe the
shock waves .  this knowledge of the shock waves should be useful in
calculations of the pressure distribution and the pressure drag of the
fore part of cones and spheres .  the experimental data on shock waves
are compared with theory .
.I 412
.T
critical combinations of shear and transverse direct
stress for an infinitely long flat plate with
edges elastically restrained against rotation .
.A
batdorf,s.b. and houbolt,j.c.
.W
critical combinations of shear and transverse direct
stress for an infinitely long flat plate with
edges elastically restrained against rotation .
  an exact solution and a closely concurring approximate
energy solution are given for the buckling of an infinitely long
flat plate under combined shear and transverse direct stress
with edges elastically restrained against rotation .  it was found
that an appreciable fraction of the critical stress in pure shear
may be applied to the plate without any reduction in the
transverse compressive stress necessary to produce buckling .  an
interaction formula in general use was shown to be decidedly
conservative for the range in which it is supposed to apply .
.I 413
.T
turbulent skin friction at high mach numbers and reynolds
numbers in air and helium . nasa r82, 1960 .
.A
matting,f.w., chapman,d.r., nyholm,j.r. and thomas,a.g.
.W
turbulent skin friction at high mach numbers and reynolds
numbers in air and helium . nasa r82, 1960 .
  results are given of local skin-friction measurements in turbulent
boundary layers over an equivalent air mach number range from 0.2 to 9.9
and an over-all reynolds number variation of 2x10 to 100x10 .  direct
force measurements were made by means of a floating element .  flows
were two-dimensional over a smooth flat surface with essentially zero
pressure gradient and with adiabatic conditions at the wall .  air and
helium were used as working fluids .  an equivalence parameter for
comparing boundary layers in different working fluids is derived and
the experimental verification of the parameter is demonstrated .
experimental results are compared with the results obtained by several
methods of calculating skin friction in the turbulent boundary layer .
.I 414
.T
the problem of resistance in compressible fluids .
.A
von karman,t.
.W
the problem of resistance in compressible fluids .
  this report is restricted to the
resistance of bodies of revolution and
of cylindrical bodies of infinite length
moving with uniform velocity in
a compressible fluid .  in the case of bodies
of revolution it will be assumed
that the direction of the movement is
parallel to the axis of symmetry .
it will be assumed that the fluid satisfies
the equation of state of perfect
gases, i. e. const., where p denotes
the pressure, the density and
t the absolute temperature .  in addition
to obeying this equation the
fluid is characterized by the statement
that the intrinsic energy of the
unit mass amounts to where for
simplicity's sake the specific heat
will be expressed in work rather
than heat units .  the ratio between
the specific heat at constant pressure
and the specific heat at constant
volume will be denoted by .  it is
known that the value of x depends
upon the number of degrees of freedom
of the molecules,. if this number
is denoted by n .  for air
the value x = 1.4 will be used .
the limiting case x = 1 will
be referred to as that of a
assumed that in the range
considered and are independent of
the temperature .
.I 415
.T
the aerodynamic design of section shapes for swept wings .
.A
pearcey, h.h.
.W
the aerodynamic design of section shapes for swept wings .
an extension of work of lock and rogers and the result of cooperation by
n.p.l., r.a.e. and members of the british aircraft industry to achieve a
 satisfactory design for an aircraft cruising at low supersonic speeds .
 knowledge of shock-wave prediction, onset of wave drag and
shock-induced separation allows the basic design to be generalized for a wide
range of parameters . unpublished work by bagley on the relation of
aerodynamic coefficients and geometry is used . the role of upper
surface velocity distribution is noted and methods for predicting pressure
distributions with shock waves are reviewed for both subsonic and
transonic flows .
.I 416
.T
methods of boundary-layer control for postponing and alleviating
buffeting and other effects of shock-induced separation .
.A
pearcey, h.h. and stuart, c.m.
.W
methods of boundary-layer control for postponing and alleviating
buffeting and other effects of shock-induced separation .
the use of boundary-layer control to increase the separation-free
margins of mach number and lift coefficient beyond the cruise point of
high-speed aircraft may often be preferred to design changes that impair
 the cruising performance or the landing and take-off characteristics .
the factors that influence the choice of method and details of its
application are discussed, emphasising particularly the need to maintain
effectiveness over most of the chord to cover the wide range of
separation positions encountered as the shock moves over the wing with
changing flight conditions .
research at the national physical laboratory that has embraced
high-velocity blowing, vane and air-jet vortex generators, and, in a
preliminary way, distributed suction, is briefly described . the
relative merits of the various methods are discussed, and some results
achieved in their application are given .
for vortex generators, the importance is stressed of the vortex paths
determined by the interactions of neighbouring vortices and their
images . thus, systems of counter-rotating vortices always leave the
surface in pairs and lose their effectiveness . co-rotating systems are
therefore preferred for many applications . blowing, which in
wind-tunnel tests gives results as good as or better than vortex generators
and does not have the disadvantage of a drag penalty at cruise, has not
yet been assessed in flight . air-jet vortex generators, which would
also avoid the drag penalty, show promise of producing significant
effects with relatively small blowing pressures and quantities .
.I 417
.T
on the stability of two dimensional parallel flows .
.A
lin,c.c.
.W
on the stability of two dimensional parallel flows .
  this is the last part of the author's theory of the stability
of plane laminar motion .  (for parts 1 and 2, cf. the same
quart. 3, 117-142, 218-234 (1945),. these rev. 7,225,226 .)
the stability character of a viscous fluid is considered in
detail .  the author proceeds first to give a proof of a criterion
of stability due to heisenberg ..  if a velocity profile has an
number and phase velocity, the disturbance with the same
wave number is unstable in the real fluid when the reynolds
number is sufficiently large .  this destabilizing effect of
viscosity is one of the most interesting phenomena in the
general stability theory,. its physical and mathematical
significance is carefully discussed .
  the author then discusses the behavior of the so-called
neutral curve for the two characteristic types of
velocity distribution, the boundary layer type profile and
the symmetrical profile .  the asymptotic behavior of the
neutral curve is discussed first .  the main difference between
profiles with and without a point of inflection is that the two
branches of the neutral curve approach and for
profiles with a flex, but both converge to for the profile
without a flex .  the most important results are as follows .
for sufficiently large reynolds number r .  (2) there always
exists a minimum r below which the motion is stable .  a
similar result was obtained by synge from energy
considerations .  synge found a limiting curve below which the
motion is necessarily stable .  the author's discussion of the
asymptotic behavior of the curves shows further
that there always exists a maximum value of a beyond
which the motion is stable for all reynolds numbers .  hence
the qualitative shape of the curve is determined .
  the author proceeds to show that simple approximate
expressions for the stability limit can be obtained from his
general analysis for a given velocity profile .  these
approximate stability limits for plane poiseuille flow and blasius
flow are found to be r=5906 and r=502 .  the reynolds
numbers are based on the width of the channel and the
displacement thickness, respectively .  finally, the method
for computing the complete instability curve is presented
and the plane poiseuille case and the blasius problem worked
out in detail .  the stability limit for blasius flow had been
given before by tollmien and schlichting .  the present more
exact computations agree well with tollmien's result as far
as the minimum critical reynolds number is concerned .
the value found here is r=420 .  the neutral curve for
poiseuille motion had not been obtained before .  the
minimum critical number here is found to be r=5314 .  the
agreement with the estimate from the simple criterion
mentioned above is thus very good .
  a discussion of the physical significance of the viscous
effects and of future developments concludes the paper .
.I 418
.T
transition form laminar to turbulent shear flow .
.A
morkovin,m.v.
.W
transition form laminar to turbulent shear flow .
  recent experimental studies of transition from laminar to
turbulent shear flows are reviewed .  certain common features
are emphasized and related to the stability theories of viscous
shear layers .  the three-dimensional character, the
unsteadiness, and the nonlinear and random behavior of the latter stages
of the transition process are also examined .
.I 419
.T
the design of intermediate vertical stiffeners on web
plates subjected to shear .
.A
rockey,k.c.
.W
the design of intermediate vertical stiffeners on web
plates subjected to shear .
  the correct design of intermediate vertical stiffeners on web plates
subjected to shear becomes very important when
the web plates are designed
to operate at loads close to their buckling loads .
this paper presents details
of an extensive series of tests conducted on
stiffened web plates subjected to
shear .  from the analysis of the results obtained
from these tests, new empirical
relationships between the flexural rigidity and
spacing of the intermediate
stiffeners and the buckling stress of the stiffened
web plate have been obtained .
  one interesting and important feature of
these new relationships is that
they define more clearly than hitherto the difference
in the behaviour of
single-and double-sided stiffeners .
.I 420
.T
an experimental study of the flow field about swept and delta wings
with sharp leading edges .
.A
jaszlics, i. and trilling, l.
.W
an experimental study of the flow field about swept and delta wings
with sharp leading edges .
a series of experiments was performed to define the flow field on the
upper surface of high aspect ratio swept wings and narrow delta wings at
 high angles of attack .
it was found that near the root section of either type of wing the flow
is conical . the edge of the vortex sheet which originates at the
leading edge is a straight line whose position relative to the leading edge
depends only on incidence . on swept wings, the vortex edge turns
down-stream as soon as the vortex sheet covers the front half of the wing
chord, and the flow under the vortex sheet outboard of that turning
point is uniform and parallel to the leading edge of the wing . on
narrow delta wings, the conical symmetry persists almost to the trailing
edge .
.I 421
.T
analytic study of induced pressure on long bodies of
revolution with varying nose bluntness at hypersonic
speeds .
.A
van hise,v.
.W
analytic study of induced pressure on long bodies of
revolution with varying nose bluntness at hypersonic
speeds .
  a systematic study of induced pressures on a series
of bodies of revolution with varying nose bluntness
has been made by using the method of characteristics
for a perfect gas .  the fluid mediums investigated
were air and helium and the mach number range
was from 5 to 40 .  a study of representative shock
shapes was also made .  flow parameters obtained
from the blast-wave analogy gave good correlations of
induced pressures and shock shapes .  the
induced-pressure correlations yielded empirical equations for
air and helium which cover the complete range of
nose bluntness considered .  (nose fineness ratios
varied from 0.4 to 4.)  available experimental
results were in good agreement with the characteristics
solutions .  properties connected with the concept of
hypersonic similitude enabled correlations of the
calculations to be made with respect to nose shape,
mach number, and ratio of specific heats .
.I 422
.T
bending of a square plate with two adjacent edges free
and the others clamped or simply supported .
.A
leissa,a.w. and niedenfuhr,f.w.
.W
bending of a square plate with two adjacent edges free
and the others clamped or simply supported .
  the title problems were solved for the two cases ..  (1) uniform
transverse loading, (2) a concentrated force at the free corner .  a
function is chosen to exactly satisfy the biharmonic equation
while the boundary conditions are enforced at a number of points
plied at discrete points around the boundary for each of the four
problems and the resulting 35 simultaneous equations were solved
on an ibm 704 .  tables listing the values of deflection and
bending moments are presented .  this paper provides useful information
on the solution of these problems which are intractable by
analytical methods .
.I 423
.T
an experimental investigation of the flow over blunt-nosed
cones at a mach number of 5. 8.
.A
machell,r.m. and o'bryant,w.t.
.W
an experimental investigation of the flow over blunt-nosed
cones at a mach number of 5. 8.
  shock shapes were observed and static pressures were measured
on spherically-blunted cones at a nominal mach number of 5.8 over a
range of reynolds numbers per inch from 97,000 to 238,000, for angles
of yaw from 0 to 8 .  six combinations of the bluntness ratios 0.4, 0.8,
and 1.064 with the cone half angles 10, 20, and 40 were used in
determining the significant parameters governing pressure distribution .
  the pressure distribution on the spherical nose for both yawed
and unyawed bodies is predicted quite accurately by the modified
newtonian theory given by, where is the angle between the
normal to a surface element and the flow direction ahead of the bow
shock .  cone half angle was found to be the significant parameter in
determining the pressure distribution near the nose-cone junction and
over the conical afterbody .  on the 40 spherical nosed cone models
the flow overexpanded with respect to the taylor-maccoll pressure in
the region of the spherical-conical juncture, after which the pressure
returned rapidly to the taylor-maccoll value .  for models with smaller
cone angles the region of minimum pressure occurred farther back on
the conical portion of the model, and the taylor-maccoll pressure was
approached more gradually .  the shape of the pressure distributions
as described in nondimensional coordinates was independent of the
radius of the spherical nose and of the reynolds number over the range
of reynolds number per inch between .97 x 10 and 2.38 x 10 .
  integrated results for the pressure foredrag of the models at zero
yaw compared very closely with the predictions of the modified newtonian
approximation, except for models with large cone angles and small nose
radii, where the drag approaches the value given by the taylor-maccoll
theory for sharp cones .
.I 424
.T
cantilever plate with concentrated edge load .
.A
holl,d.l.
.W
cantilever plate with concentrated edge load .
  the author gives, by the method of finite differences, an
approximate solution of the problem of a finite length
of a cantilever plate which bears a concentrated load at
the longitudinal free edge .  all the boundary conditions
are taken into account, and the plate action is
determined approximately at all points of the plate .  the
author points out that a secondary maximum transverse
stress occurs at the clamped edge nearest the loading
point, and that the longitudinal stress is greatest directly
under the loading point .
.I 425
.T
the solution of elastic plate problems by electrical analogies .
.A
r. h. macneal,
.W
the solution of elastic plate problems by electrical analogies .
a dynamic-analogy method for the solution of elastic plate problems is
described in this paper .  the electrical circuits developed here can be
set-up and studied on an electric-analog computer .  problems involving
deflections under constant load, transient vibrations, or normal
modes can be solved in this way .  the method of applying boundary
conditions to plates with irregular edges is given, together with
a detailed description of the representation of the boundary conditions
for a rectangular variable-thickness plate .  solutions that have been
obtained on the cal tech electric-analog computer are presented for
the static deflections and normal modes of a rectangular cantilever
plate .
.I 426
.T
preliminary analysis of axial flow compressors having
supersonic velocity at the entrance of the stator .
.A
ferri,a.
.W
preliminary analysis of axial flow compressors having
supersonic velocity at the entrance of the stator .
  a supersonic compressor design having supersonic velocity at the
entrance of the stator is analyzed on the assumption of two-dimensional
flow .  the rotor and stator losses assumed in the analysis are based on
the results of preliminary supersonic cascade tests .  the results of
the analysis show that compression ratios per stage of 6 to 10 can be
obtained with adiabatic efficiency between 70 and 80 percent .
  consideration is also given in the analysis to the starting,
stability, and range of efficient performance of this type of
compressor .  the desirability of employing variable-geometry stators
and adjustable inlet guide vanes is indicated .  although either
supersonic or subsonic axial component of velocity at the stator
entrance can be used, the cascade test results suggest that higher
pressure recovery can be obtained if the axial component is supersonic .
.I 427
.T
flow of gas through turbine lattices .
.A
deich,m.e.
.W
flow of gas through turbine lattices .
  paper is a translation of chap. 7 of the book /technical
gas-dynamics/ (see amr 9, rev 1869) .  the topics treated are best
shown by the list of paragraph headings .  they are ..  7-1 .
geometrical and gasdynamical parameters of the lattices,.
fundamentals of flow through lattices,. 7-2 .  theoretical methods of
investigation or plane potential flow of incompressible fluid through a
lattice,. 7-3 .  electro-hydrodynamic analogy,. 7-4 .  forces acting
on an airfoil in a lattice,. theorem of joukowsky for lattices,. 7-5 .
fundamental characteristics of lattices,. 7-6 .  friction losses in
plane lattice at subsonic velocities,. 7-7 .  edge losses in plane
lattice at subsonic velocities,. 7-8 .  several results of
experimental investigations of plane lattices at small subsonic
velocities,. 7-9 .  flow of gas through lattice at large subsonic
velocities,. critical mach number for lattice,. 7-10 .  profile losses in
lattices at large subsonic velocities,. 7-11 .  flow of a gas through
reaction lattices at supersonic pressure drops,. 7-12 .  impulse
lattices in supersonic flow,. 7-13 .  losses in lattices at near sonic
and supersonic velocities,. 7-14 .  computation of angle of
deflection of flow in overhang section of a reaction lattice at supersonic
pressure drops,. 7-15 .  characteristic features of three-dimensional
flow in lattices .
.I 428
.T
the quasi-cylinder of specified thickness and shell
loading in supersonic flow .
.A
portnoy,j.
.W
the quasi-cylinder of specified thickness and shell
loading in supersonic flow .
  the methods of the operational
calculus are used to obtain a linear
approximation to the shape of the mean camber
surface of a quasi-cylinder in a
supersonic flow in terms of its shell thickness
and loading distributions .  the
analysis deals with a generalised quasi-cylinder ,.
that is one which, although lying
close to a mean cylinder, need not possess
axial symmetry .  the quasi-cylinder
is also permitted to be within the small
disturbance field of other separate
components, e.g. a centre-body .  because
the linearised theory is inadmissable
for internal duct flows close to and beyond
the first reflected characteristic cone,
the present solution is likewise invalid close
to and beyond the position where
this characteristic meets the mean cylinder .
the work given here enables the
camber shapes of /ring-wings/, which have
been used theoretically to reduce or
even nullify the wave-drag of a central slender-body,
to be found .  an example
illustrates the general method .
.I 429
.T
a description of the r. a. e.  high speed supersonic
tunnel .
.A
poole,j.a.
.W
a description of the r. a. e.  high speed supersonic
tunnel .
  an account is given of the high supersonic speed tunnel now nearing
completion .  the design philosophy is reviewed, the principal features
are described and some of the more interesting development problems
are noted .
