.I 206
.T
the applications of the polygon method to the calculation
of the compressible subsonic flow round two-dimensional
profiles .
.A
woods,l.c.
.W
the applications of the polygon method to the calculation
of the compressible subsonic flow round two-dimensional
profiles .
  this paper sets out the method now used by the author of
applying the polygon method to the calculation of the compressible
subsonic flow round two-dimensional aerofoils .  tables have been
constructed which can be used for all aerofoil shapes, putting the
polygon method on the same footing numerically as goldstein's
method has the advantage over approximation 3 that it can be applied in
the following cases which are beyond the scope of goldstein's method ..
conventional aerofoils, (b) the low-speed flow about very thick
aerofoils, e.g., in reference 3 it is applied to circular cylinders, (c)
the flow about symmetric aerofoils between either straight or constant
pressure walls, (d) flow in asymmetric channels,
and (e) more difficult problems
of the flow about aerofoils in the presence
of one or two constraining
walls (to be published) .  a method of
calculating lift and moment
coefficients, and their rates of change
with incidence (a) is also
given in the paper .
  as an example the velocity distribution and the rates of
change of the lift and moment coefficients with a are calculated for
the aerofoil r.a.e.104 at values of m (mach number at infinity) of 0,
and 0.7, for various values of the incidence, a .  the velocity
distributions for zero incidence are found to be in fair agreement with
the corresponding experimental results .  the results at incidence are
in satisfactory agreement with the experimental results, not for the
same incidence, but for the same lift coefficient .  it is found, for
example, that at m = 0.7 the theory for a = 0.8 agrees best
with experiment for a = 1.0, when the lift coefficients are
approximately the same .
.I 207
.T
laminar boundary layer oscillations and transition
on a flat plate .
.A
schubauer,g.b. and skramstad,h.k.
.W
laminar boundary layer oscillations and transition
on a flat plate .
  this is an account of an investigation in which oscillations
were discovered in the laminar boundary layer along a flat plate .
these oscillations were found during the course of an experiment
in which transition from laminar to turbulent flow was being
studied on the plate as the turbulence in the wind stream was
being reduced to unusually low values by means of damping
screens .  the first part of the paper deals with experimental
methods and apparatus, measurements of turbulence and
sound, and studies of transition .  a description is then given
of the manner in which oscillations were discovered and how
they were found to be related to transition, and then how
controlled oscillations were produced and studied in detail .  the
oscillations are shown to be the velocity variations
accompanying a wave motion in the boundary layer, this wave motion having
all the characteristics predicted by a stability theory based on
the exponential growth of small disturbances .  a review of this
theory is given .  the work is thus experimental confirmation
of a mathematical theory of stability which had been in the
process of development for a period of approximately 40 years,
mainly by german investigators .
.I 208
.T
the hall effect in the viscous flow of ionized gas
between parallel plates under transverse magnetic field .
.A
sato,h.
.W
the hall effect in the viscous flow of ionized gas
between parallel plates under transverse magnetic field .
  the electrical conductivity of an ionized
gas is anisotropic in the
presence of magnetic field (hall effect) .
the conductivity is expressed by
a tensor in the same form for both fully
and partially ionized gases .  by
the use of modified ohm's law and
conventional magnetohydrodynamical
equations the incompressible viscous
flow between parallel plates under
the transverse magnetic field is analyzed
and an exact solution is obtained
when the magnetic reynolds number
is small .  the numerical results
reveal a remarkable effect of anisotropy
of conductivity .  the acceleration
and deceleration of viscous ionized
gas under combined electric and
magnetic fields are also calculated .
.I 209
.T
boundary layer induced noise in the interior of aircraft .
.A
ribner,h.s.
.W
boundary layer induced noise in the interior of aircraft .
  at high speeds the turbulent boundary layer washing the
airplane fuselage excites appreciable skin vibration, promoting strong
noise in the interior .  the fluctuating exciting pressure distribution
can be represented as a pattern of moving waves (fourier integral) .
a running ripple in the skin follows underneath each wave, and the noise
is ultimately due to these ripples .
  the acoustic effects of the running ripples are calculated
for an infinite sheet,. this is considered the main result of the
paper .  supersonically moving ripples radiate strong sound in the form
of mach waves,. subsonically moving ripples radiate no sound .  formulas
for the mean square surface pressure and the energy flux are obtained
for an assumed idealized turbulent pressure spectrum .
  the results are adapted to provide a tentative estimate of
the noise generated at subsonic speeds in a practical fuselage .  the
running ripples are almost noise-free, but multiple reflections at the
frames and stringers promote standing waves .  an assumption is used
to link the two kinds of waves, and this leads to provisional
calculations of noise level ..  on this basis the noise level is
predicted to vary as for thin boundary layers, changing
progressively to for thick layers ( = external air
density, = speed, = layer thickness, = panel thickness) .  some
comparisons are made with experiment .  finally, an idea for
minimizing the noise is presented .
.I 210
.T
propeller in yaw .
.A
ribner,h.s.
.W
propeller in yaw .
  it was realized as early as 1909 that a propeller in yaw
develops a side force like that of a fin .  in 1917, r. g. harris
expressed this force in terms of the torque coefficient for the
unyawed propeller .  of several attempts to express the side
force directly in terms of the shape of the blades, however, none
has been completely satisfactory .  an analysis that
incorporates induction effects not adequately covered in previous work
and that gives good agreement with experiment over a wide
range of operating conditions is presented herein .  the present
analysis shows that the fin analogy may be extended to the form
of the side-force expression and that the effective fin area may
be taken as the projected side area of the propeller .  the
effective aspect ratio is of the order of 8 and the appropriate dynamic
pressure is roughly that at the propeller disk as augmented by
the inflow .  the variation of the inflow velocity, for a
fixed-pitch propeller, accounts for most of the variation of side force
with advance-diameter ratio v nd .
  the propeller forces due to an angular velocity of pitch are
also analyzed and are shown to be very small for the pitching
velocities that may actually be realized in maneuvers, with the
exception of the spin .
  further conclusions are ..  a dual-rotating propeller in yaw
develops up to one-third more side force than a single-rotating
propeller .  a yawed single-rotating propeller experiences a
pitching moment in addition to the side force .  the pitching
moment is of the order of the moment produced by a force equal
to the side force, acting at the end of a lever arm equal to the
propeller radius .  this cross-coupling between pitch and yaw
is small but possibly not negligible .
  the formulas for propellers in yaw derived herein (with the
exception of the compressibility correction) and a series of
charts of the side-force derivative calculated therefrom have been
presented without derivation in an earlier report .
.I 211
.T
effect of slight blunting of leading edge of an immersed
body on the flow around it at hypersonic speed .
.A
chernyi,g.g.
.W
effect of slight blunting of leading edge of an immersed
body on the flow around it at hypersonic speed .
  manufacturing and maintainance of ideally sharp leading edges
and noses is practically impossible, hence a discrepancy arises
between the theory established for sharp edges and actual flow
around slightly blunted edges, where a detached shock is formed
with a subsonic adjacent region .  semi-empirical method is worked
out showing that the pressure distribution in the vicinity of the
leading edge is the same for different thin profiles having the same
shape of bluntness on their edges or noses .  the data for a flat
plate can be used for all of them .  for moderate supersonic speed
the pressure on the remaining body is practically unaffected by the
nose bluntness, and can be computed from a sharp-edge theory .
for high supersonic speed a slight blunting of the edge can
considerably alter the pattern of flow over a large region .  the method
consists in replacing blunted edge by action of concentrated
forces on the flow,. it is applied to blunted wedge where it shows
doubling of the drag computed by classic theory, and to cones,
where the drag of a blunted cone may become smaller than that of
a sharp one .
.I 212
.T
theory and tunnel tests of rotor blade for supersonic
turbines .
.A
stratford,b.s. and sansome,g.e.
.W
theory and tunnel tests of rotor blade for supersonic
turbines .
  in special circumstances where a large work
output is required from a turbine in a single stage
it is necessary to use high pressure ratios across the
nozzle blades, thus producing supersonic velocities at
inlet to the rotor .  as part of an investigation into such
turbines, several designs for the inter-blade passages of
the rotor have been tested in a two-dimensional tunnel,
a design theory being developed concurrently .
  the first design, featuring constant passage width
and curvature as in steam-turbine practice, but having
thin leading and trailing edges, was found to suffer from
focusing of the compression waves from the concave
surface, with consequent flow separation from the
opposite convex surface .  it gave a velocity coefficient of
measured at an inlet mach number of 1.90 and turning
angle of 140 deg .  the measured value compares favourably
with values from previous steam tests, where the
results have been in the range from 0.65 to 0.92 .
  from theoretical reasoning, and from additional test
observations, a subsequent passage was designed
having an inlet transition length of small curvature, leading
to a free-vortex passage of double the transition
curvature,. a small amount of contraction was incorporated .
schlieren photographs showed the flow in this
passage to be almost shock free .  a thin region of low-energy
air existed close to the convex surface, but
liquid-injection tests located only one small bubble of reversed flow .
pressure traverses at exit indicated a velocity
coefficient of 0.952, based on the area-mean total pressure .
when allowance is made for turning angle and
reynolds number this result appears to compare quite favourably
with previous work .
  it would seem that the optimum blade pitching in a turbine
would be about 20 to 30 per cent closer than in a
two-dimensional cascade .  however, the resultant pitching
tends to become very close, except at very large
turning angles, with the result that in some applications
difficulties could arise in the practical design and
manufacture .
  several uncertainties remain and the present design must be regarded
as still experimental .
.I 213
.T
the performance of supersonic turbine nozzles .
.A
stratford,b.s. and sansome,g.e.
.W
the performance of supersonic turbine nozzles .
  an investigation has been conducted
at the national gas turbine establishment into the
performance of turbines having high pressure ratios
per stage .  the present report discusses the mode of
operation of supersonic nozzles for such turbines,
and describes a cascade experiment .  both theory and
experiment demonstrate that the conditions imposed
upon the supersonic flow immediately downstream
of the nozzles (e.g., by a following row of rotor blades)
exert an overriding influence upon the nozzle outlet
flow angle, and hence upon the maximum pressure
ratio obtainable across the nozzle--providing that the
axial component of velocity is subsonic .  this is an
important difference from the more familiar flow of
subsonic turbine nozzles, where, for example, the
downstream gas angle is controlled predominantly by the
nozzle blade shape and spacing .  a suitable test technique
using a closed-jet tunnel is demonstrated .
  the particular nozzles tested, of convergent-divergent
form, had a straight-sided divergent portion of
to axial direction) and a design mach number of 2 .
the flow was found to be well behaved as regards shock
pattern, losses, and starting over the range of pressure
ratios tested--between 9 1 and 19 1 .  in particular the
efficiency at the design pressure ratio of 16.6 1 was
high, the velocity coefficient calculated from traverses of
pitot and static tubes being 0.98 .
  for the conversion of pitot to total pressure at a mach
number of 2.5 a high accuracy is important in the
measurement of the static pressure,. nevertheless readings
from a conventional four-hole instrument appear to
be reliable .
.I 214
.T
on the testing of supersonic compressor cascades .
.A
staniforth,r.
.W
on the testing of supersonic compressor cascades .
  to facilitate the development of high speed axial-flow compressors,
an investigation was made into the possibility of measuring blade
performance in a stationary cascade at supersonic speeds .  a suitable
technique was developed and the losses in a variety of cascades were
measured, but these losses were too high for the blading to have any
possible application .  it was concluded that if a useful compressor is
to result, it is essential to test the cascades at mach numbers close to
the existing technique was suitable only for zero incidence tests, and
thus a new approach is necessary .
  some of the fundamentals of this cascade testing at low supersonic
speeds are discussed in the light of the current understanding of the
mode of operation of supersonic compressors at transonic speeds .
.I 215
.T
the test performance of highly loaded turbine stages
designed for high pressure ratio .
.A
johnston,i.h. and dransfield,d.c.
.W
the test performance of highly loaded turbine stages
designed for high pressure ratio .
  a blade design for a highly loaded two-stage
turbine is described and the test performance of
the turbine is presented .
  some of the factors affecting the performance and matching
of turbine blade rows operating at supersonic
gas velocity are discussed and investigated by means of tests
on a three-dimensional nozzle cascade tunnel
and on a variety of single-stage turbine builds .
