.I 50
.T
investigation of laminar boundary layer in compressible
fluids using the crocco method .
.A
van driest,e.r.
.W
investigation of laminar boundary layer in compressible
fluids using the crocco method .
  in the present investigation of the flow of air in a thin laminar
boundary layer on a flat plate, the crocco method has been used to solve
the simultaneous differential equations of momentum and energy involved
in such flow .  the crocco method was used because it gave accurate
results for arbitrary prandtl number near unity .  the prandtl number
was taken at 0.75, the specific heat was held constant, and the
sutherland law of viscosity-temperature variation was assumed to
represent the viscosity data starting with an initial ambient
temperature of -67.6 f .  the main results presented here are the
skin-friction and heat-transfer coefficients as functions of reynolds number,
mach number, and wall-to-free-stream temperature ratio .  variations of
shear, velocity, temperature, and mach number across the boundary layer
are included .  the crocco method is discussed in detail .
.I 51
.T
theory of aircraft structural models subjected to aerodynamic
heating and external loads .
.A
o'sullivan,w.j.
.W
theory of aircraft structural models subjected to aerodynamic
heating and external loads .
  the problem of investigating the simultaneous effects of transient
aerodynamic heating and external loads on aircraft structures for the
purpose of determining the ability of the structure to withstand flight
to supersonic speeds is studied .  by dimensional analyses it is shown
that ..
constructed of the same materials as the aircraft will be thermally
similar to the aircraft with respect to
the flow of heat through the structure
will be similar to those of the aircraft when the structural model is
constructed at the same temperature as the aircraft .
external loads will be similar to those of the aircraft .
subjected to heating and cooling that correctly simulate the aerodynamic
heating of the aircraft, except with respect to angular velocities and
angular accelerations, without requiring determination of the heat flux
at each point on the surface and its variation with time .
acting on the aerodynamically heated structural model to those acting
on the aircraft is determined for the case of zero angular velocity and
zero angular acceleration, so that the structural model may be subjected
to the external loads required for simultaneous simulation of stresses
and deformations due to external loads .
.I 52
.T
procedure for calculating flutter at high supersonic
speed including camber deflections, and comparison
with experimental results .
.A
morgan,h.g.
.W
procedure for calculating flutter at high supersonic
speed including camber deflections, and comparison
with experimental results .
  a method which may be used at high supersonic mach numbers is
described for calculating the flutter speed of wings having camber in
their deflection modes .  the normal coupled vibration modes of the wing
are used to derive the equations of motion .  chord deflections of the
vibration modes are approximated by polynomials .  the wing may have a
control surface and may carry external stores although no aerodynamic
forces on the stores are presented .  the aerodynamic forces that are
assumed to be acting on the wing are obtained from piston theory and
also from a quasi-steady form of a theory for two-dimensional steady
flow .  airfoil shape and thickness effects are taken account of in the
analysis .
  the method is used to calculate the flutter speed of some wings
which had been previously tested at mach numbers of 1.3 to 3.0 .
comparison of the calculations and experiment is made for flat-plate 60
and 45 delta wings and also for an untapered 45 sweptback wing .
.I 53
.T
transition reynolds numbers of separated flows at
supersonic speeds .
.A
larson,h.k. and keating,s.j.
.W
transition reynolds numbers of separated flows at
supersonic speeds .
  experimental research has been conducted on the effects of wall
cooling, mach number, and unit reynolds
number on the transition reynolds
number of cylindrical separated boundary
layers on an ogive-cylinder model .
results were obtained from pressure and temperature measurements and
shadowgraph observations .  the maximum
scope of measurements encompassed
mach numbers between 2.06 and 4.24, reynolds numbers (based on length of
separation) between 60,000 and 400,000,
and ratios of wall temperature to
adiabatic wall temperature between 0.35 and 1.0 .
within the range of the
present tests, the transition reynolds number was observed to decrease
with increasing wall cooling, increase with increasing mach number, and
increase with increasing unit reynolds number .  the wall-cooling effect
was found to be four times as great when the attached boundary layer
upstream of separation was cooled in conjunction with cooling of the
separated boundary layer as when only the separated boundary layer was
cooled .  wall cooling of both the
attached and separated flow regions also
caused, in some cases, reattachment in the otherwise separated region .
cavity resonance present in the separated region for some model
configurations was accompanied by a large decrease in transition reynolds
number at the lower test mach numbers .
.I 54
.T
method for calculation of compressible laminar boundary
layer characteristics in axial pressure gradient with
zero heat transfer .
.A
morduchow,m. and clarke,j.h.
.W
method for calculation of compressible laminar boundary
layer characteristics in axial pressure gradient with
zero heat transfer .
  the karman-pohlhausen method is extended primarily to sixth-degree
velocity profiles for determining
the characteristics of the compressible
laminar boundary layer over an adiabatic
wall in the presence of an axial
pressure gradient .  it is assumed that the prandtl number is unity and
that the coefficient of viscosity varies linearly with the temperature .
a general approximate solution which permits a rapid determination of
the boundary-layer characteristics for any given free-stream mach number
and given velocity distribution at the outer edge of the boundary layer
is obtained .  numerical examples indicate that this solution will in
practice lead to results of satisfactory
accuracy, including the critical
reynolds number for stability .  for the special purpose of calculating
the location of the separation point in an adverse pressure gradient, a
short and simple method, based on the use of a seventh-degree velocity
profile, is derived .  the numerical example given here indicates that
this method should in practice lead to sufficiently accurate results .
for the special case of flow near a forward stagnation point it is shown
that the karman-pohlhausen method with the usual fourth-degree profiles
leads to results of adequate accuracy, even for the critical reynolds
number .
.I 55
.T
separation, stability and other properties of compressible
laminar boundary layer with pressure gradient and heat
transfer .
.A
morduchow,m. and grape,r.g.
.W
separation, stability and other properties of compressible
laminar boundary layer with pressure gradient and heat
transfer .
  a theoretical study is made of the effect of pressure gradient,
wall temperature, and mach number on laminar boundary-layer
characteristics and, in particular, on the skin-friction and heat-transfer
coefficients, on the separation point in an adverse pressure gradient,
on the wall temperature required for complete stabilization of the
laminar boundary layer, and on the minimum critical reynolds number for
laminar stability .  the prandtl number is assumed to be unity and the
coefficient of viscosity is assumed to be proportional to the
temperature, with a factor arising from the sutherland relation .  a simple and
accurate method of locating the separation point in a compressible flow
with heat transfer is developed .  numerical examples to illustrate the
results in detail are given throughout .
.I 56
.T
an analysis of the applicability of the hypersonic
similarity law to the study of the flow about bodies
of revolution at zero angle of attack .
.A
ehret,d.m.
.W
an analysis of the applicability of the hypersonic
similarity law to the study of the flow about bodies
of revolution at zero angle of attack .
  the hypersonic similarity law as derived by tsien has been
investigated by comparing the pressure distributions along bodies of
revolution at zero angle of attack .  in making
these comparisons, particular
attention was given to determining the limits of mach number and fineness
ratio for which the similarity law applies .  for the purpose of this
investigation, pressure distributions
determined by the method of
characteristics for ogive cylinders for
values of mach numbers and fineness
ratios varying from 1.5 to 12 were compared .
pressures on various cones
and on cone cylinders were also compared in this study .
  the pressure distributions presented demonstrate that the hypersonic
similarity law is applicable over a
wider range of values of mach numbers
and fineness ratios than might be expected from the assumptions made in
the derivation .  this is significant since within the range of
applicability of the law a single pressure
distribution exists for all similarly
shaped bodies for which the ratio of
free-stream mach number to fineness
ratio is constant .  charts are presented
for rapid determination of
pressure distributions over ogive cylinders for any combination of mach
number and fineness ratio within defined limits .
.I 57
.T
applicability of the hypersonic similarity rule to
pressure distributions which include the effects of
rotation for bodies of revolution at zero angle of
attack .
.A
rossow,v.j.
.W
applicability of the hypersonic similarity rule to
pressure distributions which include the effects of
rotation for bodies of revolution at zero angle of
attack .
  the analysis of technical note 2250, 1950, is extended to include
the effects of flow rotation .  it is
found that the theoretical pressure
distributions over ogive cylinders can be related by the hypersonic
similarity rule with sufficient accuracy for most engineering purposes .
  the error introduced into pressure distributions and drag of ogive
cylinders by ignoring the rotation term in the characteristic equations
is investigated .  it is found that
the influence of the rotation term on
pressure distribution and drag depends only upon the similarity
parameter k (mach number divided by fineness ratio) .
although the error in
drag, due to neglect of the rotation term, is negligible at k=0.5, the
error is about 30 percent at k=2.0 .
  charts are presented for the rapid determination of pressure
distributions for rotational flow over
ogive cylinders for all values of
the similarity parameter between 0.5 and
of mach number and fineness ratio .
.I 58
.T
pressure measurements on sharp and blunt 5 and 15 half-angle
cones at mach number 3.86 and angles of attack to
100 .
.A
amick,j.l.
.W
pressure measurements on sharp and blunt 5 and 15 half-angle
cones at mach number 3.86 and angles of attack to
100 .
  measured pressure distributions on cones are compared with modified
newtonian theory .  deviations as large as 14 percent of the stagnation
pressure behind a normal shock are found .
by combining empirical results
for cylinders normal to the flow with
newtonian concepts, a method of
calculating pressures on cones at high angles
of attack is developed .
calculations by this method differ from the
experimental results on sharp cones
by only 2 percent of the stagnation
pressure behind a normal shock .  for
blunted cones, additional deviations
up to 8 percent are noted near the
nose .
  schlieren pictures of the flow show an attached shock on the sharp
of attack .  detachment of the shock
appears to be associated with the
attainment of sonic speed immediately
behind the shock .
  an orifice size effect is found which can increase the indicated
pressure above the true value, if
the orifice width is greater than
one-tenth the local radius of curvature .
.I 59
.T
tables of exact laminar-boundary layer solutions when
the wall is porous and fluid properties are variable .
.A
brown,w.d. and donoughe,p.l.
.W
tables of exact laminar-boundary layer solutions when
the wall is porous and fluid properties are variable .
  the three partial differential equations of the laminar boundary
layer for two-dimensional steady-state compressible flow have been
transformed into two ordinary differential equations by the method of
pohlhausen, falkner, and skan .  the ordinary equations include
parameters for expressing the simultaneous effects of pressure gradient in
the main-stream flow through a porous wall and property changes in the
fluid due to large temperature differences between the wall and the
free stream .
  a total of 58 cases have been solved numerically by the method of
picard .  the euler number (nondimensional pressure-gradient parameter)
ranges in value from 1 (stagnation-point value) to the negative values
found at the laminar separation points .  three rates of flow through
the porous wall were considered (including the impermeable case where
the flow rate is 0) .  five temperature ratios (stream temperature
divided by wall temperature) were used ..  the uncooled and unheated
case (temperature ratio of 1), two cooled cases (temperature ratios of
ture ratios of and ) .  velocity, weight-flow, and temperature
distributions are tabulated as are the dimensionless stream function of
falkner and skan and its derivatives and the dimensionless temperature
function of pohlhausen and its derivatives .
  for each case, displacement, momentum, and convection thicknesses,
as well as nusselt number and coefficient of friction at the wall, were
computed .
.I 60
.T
estimation forces and moments due to rolling for several
slender tail configurations at supersonic speeds .
.A
bobbitt,p.j. and malvestuto,f.s.
.W
estimation forces and moments due to rolling for several
slender tail configurations at supersonic speeds .
  the velocity potentials, span loadings, and corresponding force
and moment derivatives have been theoretically evaluated for a number
of slender-tail arrangements performing a steady rolling motion at
supersonic speeds .
  the method of analysis is based upon an application of
conformal-transformation techniques .  the utilization of these techniques allows
the simple determination of the complex potentials for various types
of two-dimensional boundary-value problems .
  in addition, two simple and often-used approximations to the
rolling derivatives have been compared with the corresponding exact
values determined by the method presented in this report .
  in order to show the importance of wing-tail interference, the
effect of the flow field behind a rolling wing on the tail
characteristics has been illustrated for a simple wing-tail arrangement .
.I 61
.T
on flow of electrically conducting fluids over a flat
plate in the presence of a transverse magnetic field .
.A
rossow,v.j.
.W
on flow of electrically conducting fluids over a flat
plate in the presence of a transverse magnetic field .
  the use of a magnetic field to control the motion of electrically
conducting fluids is studied .  the boundary-layer solutions are found
for flow over a flat plate when the magnetic field is fixed relative to
the plate or to the fluid .  the
equations are integrated numerically for
the effect of the transverse magnetic
field on the velocity and temperature
profiles, and hence, the skin friction and rate of heat transfer .
  it is concluded that the skin friction and the heat-transfer rate are
reduced when the transverse magnetic
field is fixed relative to the plate
and increased when fixed relative to the fluid .  the total drag is
increased in all the cases studied .
.I 62
.T
similar solutions for the compressible laminar boundary
layer with heat transfer and pressure gradient .
.A
cohen,c.b. and reshotko,e.
.W
similar solutions for the compressible laminar boundary
layer with heat transfer and pressure gradient .
  stewartson's transformation is applied to the laminar compressible
boundary-layer equations and the
requirement of similarity is introduced,
resulting in a set of ordinary nonlinear differential equations
previously quoted by stewartson, but unsolved .  the requirements of the
system are ..  prandtl number of 1.0, linear viscosity-temperature
relation across the boundary layer, an
isothermal surface, and the particular
distributions of free-stream velocity
consistent with similar solutions .
this system admits axial pressure
gradients of arbitrary magnitude, heat
flux normal to the surface, and arbitrary mach numbers .
  the system of differential equations is transformed to an integral
system, with the velocity ratio as
the independent variable .  for this
system, solutions are found for pressure gradients varying from that
causing separation to the infinitely favorable gradient and for wall
temperatures from absolute zero to twice the free-stream stagnation
temperature .  some solutions for separated flows are also presented .
  for favorable pressure gradients, the solutions are unique .  for
adverse pressure gradients, where the solutions are not unique, two
solutions of the infinite family of possible solutions are identified as
essentially viscid at the outer edge of the boundary layer and the
remainder essentially inviscid .  for
the case of favorable pressure gradients
with heated walls, the velocity within
a portion of the boundary layer is
shown to exceed the local external velocity .
the variation of a reynolds
analogy parameter, which indicates the ratio of skin friction to heat
transfer, is from zero to 7.4 for a surface of temperature twice the
free-stream stagnation temperature, and from zero to 2.8 for a surface
held at absolute zero where the value 2 applies to a flat plate .
.I 63
.T
hypersonic viscous flow over slender cones .
.A
talbot,l.
.W
hypersonic viscous flow over slender cones .
  viscous self-induced pressures on 3 -semivertex-angle cones were
measured over the range 3.7 free-stream mach number 5.8 and 0.5
viscous-interaction parameter 2.3 .  the data were found to be in good
agreement with results obtained by talbot on 5 cones in the range
rameter 3.5 .  all these data were correlated reasonably well by the
viscous-interaction parameter, which is defined as
where and are the mach number and reynolds number based on
ideal taylor-maccoll flow conditions and c is the chapman-rubesin
factor .
  a new method for calculating self-induced pressures is presented
which takes into account the interaction between boundary-layer growth
and the inviscid-flow field at the outer edge of the boundary layer .
pressures calculated by this method were only 10 to 20 percent higher
than the measured values .
.I 64
.T
unsteady oblique interaction of a shock wave with plane
disturbances .
.A
moore,f.k.
.W
unsteady oblique interaction of a shock wave with plane
disturbances .
  analysis is made of the flow field produced by oblique impingement
of weak plane disturbances of arbitrary
profile on a plane normal shock .
three types of disturbance are considered ..
moves .  the sound wave refracts either
as a simple isentropic sound wave
or as an attenuating isentropic pressure wave, depending on the angle
between the shock and the incident
sound wave .  a stationary vorticity
wave of constant pressure appears behind the shock .
reflects as a sound wave, and a stationary vorticity wave is produced .
the shock .  the incident wave refracts as a stationary vorticity wave,
and either a sound wave or attenuating pressure wave is also produced .
  computations are presented for the first two types of incident wave,
over the range of incidence angles, for shock mach numbers of 1, 1.5,
and .
.I 65
.T
convection of a pattern of vorticity through a shock
wave .
.A
ribner,h.s.
.W
convection of a pattern of vorticity through a shock
wave .
  an arbitrary weak spatial distribution of vorticity can be
represented in terms of plane sinusoidal shear waves of all orientations and
wave lengths (fourier integral) .  the analysis treats the passage of a
single representative weak shear wave through a plane shock and shows
refraction and modification of the shear wave with simultaneous
generation of an acoustically intense sound
wave .  applications to turbulence
and to noise in supersonic wind tunnels are indicated .
.I 66
.T
some effects of joint conductivity on the temperature
and thermal stresses in aerodynamically heated skin-stiffener
combinations .
.A
griffith,g.e. and miltonberger,g.h.
.W
some effects of joint conductivity on the temperature
and thermal stresses in aerodynamically heated skin-stiffener
combinations .
  temperatures and thermal stresses in typical skin-stiffener
combinations of winglike structures subjected to aerodynamic heating have
been obtained with the aid of an electronic differential analyzer .
variations were made in an aerodynamic
heat-transfer parameter, in a joint
conductivity parameter, and in the ratio
of skin width to skin thickness .
the results, which are presented in nondimensional form, indicate that
decreasing the joint conductivity parameter lowers both the interior
and the average temperature ratios, increases the peak thermal stress
ratios in the skin, and may considerably increase the peak stiffener
stress ratios,. increasing the aerodynamic heat-transfer parameter
decreases the interior and average temperature ratios, increases the
peak skin stress ratios somewhat,
but greatly increases the peak
stiffener stress ratios,. and increasing the ratio of skin width to skin
thickness produces only moderate decreases in the peak skin stress
ratios while moderately increasing the peak stiffener stress ratios .
.I 67
.T
dynamic stability of vehicles traversing ascending
or descending paths through the atmosphere .
.A
tobak and allen.
.W
dynamic stability of vehicles traversing ascending
or descending paths through the atmosphere .
  an analysis is given of the oscillatory motions of vehicles which
traverse ascending and descending paths through the atmosphere at high
speed .  the specific case of a skip path is examined in detail, and
this leads to a form of solution for the oscillatory motion which should
recur over any trajectory .  the distinguishing feature of this form is
the appearance of the bessel rather than the trigonometric function as
the characteristic mode of oscillation .
.I 68
.T
some aspects of air-helium simulation and hypersonic
approximations .
.A
love,e.s.
.W
some aspects of air-helium simulation and hypersonic
approximations .
  some illustrations of the differences that may be expected between
results obtained in hypersonic wind tunnels that employ air and results
obtained in those that employ helium as the test medium (imperfect-gas
effects are not considered) are compiled and presented herein .  simple
expressions are presented that demonstrate the possibility of simulating
air results in helium tests and of transforming helium data to
equivalent air data .  nonviscous and viscous simulations are considered .  in
most cases, the methods and the general forms of the expressions for
simulation that are derived are applicable to any two ideal gases having
different ratios of specific heats .
.I 69
.T
predicted shock envelopes about two types of vehicles
at large angles of attack .
.A
kaattari,g.e.
.W
predicted shock envelopes about two types of vehicles
at large angles of attack .
  methods based on oblique- and normal-shock relationships and the
continuity of mass flow through suitably chosen volume elements between
the shock and body were developed to predict shock envelopes about two
types of vehicles being considered for atmosphere entry .  one type is a
high-drag capsule shape .  the other type is essentially a slender
triangular wing capable of providing high lift or high drag, depending on
the angle of attack .  predicted and measured shock envelopes were
compared for a mach number range of 3 to 15 for vehicles at high angles of
attack,. good agreement was found .  most of the available experimental
data were in a speed and temperature range in which no important
real-gas effects occurred .
.I 70
.T
a study of flow changes associated with airfoil section
drag rise at supercritical speeds .
.A
nitzburg,g.e. and crandall,s.
.W
a study of flow changes associated with airfoil section
drag rise at supercritical speeds .
  a study of experimental pressure distributions and section
characteristics for several moderately thick airfoil sections was made .  a
correlation appears to exist between the drag-divergence mach number
and the free-stream mach number for which sonic velocity occurs at the
airfoil crest, the chordwise station at which the airfoil surface is
tangent to the free-stream direction .  it was found that, since the
mach number for which sonic velocity occurs at the airfoil crest can be
estimated satisfactorily by means of the prandtl-glauert rule, a method
is provided whereby the drag-divergence mach number of an airfoil
section at a given angle of attack can be estimated from the low-speed
pressure distribution and the airfoil profile .  this method was used
to predict with a reasonable degree of accuracy the drag-divergence
mach number of a considerable number of airfoil sections having diverse
shapes and a wide range of thickness-chord ratios .
  the pressure distributions and section force characteristics of
several moderately thick airfoil sections at mach numbers above the
drag-divergence mach number were analyzed .  some of the characteristics
of the flow over these airfoils at supercritical mach numbers are
discussed .
.I 71
.T
laminar boundary layer behind shock advancing into
stationary fluid .
.A
mirels,h.
.W
laminar boundary layer behind shock advancing into
stationary fluid .
  a study was made of the laminar compressible boundary layer induced
by a shock wave advancing into a stationary fluid bounded by a wall .
for weak shock waves, the boundary layer is identical with that which
occurs when an infinite wall is impulsively set into uniform motion
shocks .
  velocity and temperature profiles, recovery factors, and
skin-friction and heat-transfer coefficients are tabulated for a wide range
of shock strengths .
.I 72
.T
boundary layer behind shock or thin expansion wave
moving into stationary fluid .
.A
mirels,h.
.W
boundary layer behind shock or thin expansion wave
moving into stationary fluid .
  the boundary layer behind a shock or thin expansion wave advancing
into a stationary fluid has been determined .  laminar and turbulent
boundary layers were considered .  the wall surface temperature behind
the wave was also investigated .  the assumption of a thin expansion
wave is valid for weak expansions but becomes progressively less
accurate for strong expansion waves .
  the laminar-boundary-layer problem was solved by numerical
integration except for the weak wave case,
which can be solved analytically .
integral (karman-pohlhausen type)
solutions were also obtained to provide
a guide for determining expressions
which accurately represent the
numerical data .  analytical expressions
for various boundary-layer parameters
are presented which agree with the
numerical integrations within 1 percent .
  the turbulent-boundary-layer problem was solved using integral
methods similar to those employed for the
solution of turbulent compressible
flow over a semi-infinite flat plate .
the fluid velocity, relative to
the wall, was assumed to have a
seventh-power profile .  the blasius
equation, relating turbulent skin friction
and boundary-layer thickness, was
utilized in a form which accounted for compressibility .
  consideration of the heat transfer to the wall permitted the wall
surface temperature, behind the wave,
to be determined .  the wall
thickness was assumed to be greater than the
wall thermal-boundary-layer
thickness .  it was found that the wall
temperature was uniform (as a
function of distance behind the wave)
for the laminar-boundary-layer case
but varied with distance for the turbulent-boundary-layer case .
.I 73
.T
investigation of the stability of the laminar boundary
layer in a compressible fluid .
.A
lees,l. and lin,c.c.
.W
investigation of the stability of the laminar boundary
layer in a compressible fluid .
  in the present report the stability of two-dimensional laminar
flows of a gas is investigated by the method of small perturbations .
the chief emphasis is placed on the case of the laminar boundary layer .
  part 1 of the present report deals with the general mathematical
theory .  the general equations governing one normal mode of the small
velocity and temperature disturbances are derived and studied in great
detail .  it is found that for reynolds numbers of the order of those
encountered in most aerodynamic problems, the temperature disturbances
have only a negligible effect on those particular velocity solutions
which depend primarily on the viscosity coefficient (/viscous
solutions/) .  indeed, the latter are actually of the same form in the
compressible fluid as in the incompressible fluid, at least to the first
approximation .  because of this fact, the mathematical analysis is
greatly simplified .  the final equation determining the characteristic
values of the stability problem depends on the /inviscid solutions/ and
the function of tietjens in a manner very similar to the case of the
incompressible fluid .  the second viscosity coefficient and the
coefficient of heat conductivity do not enter the problem,. only the
ordinary coefficient of viscosity near the solid surface is involved .
  part 2 deals with the limiting case of infinite reynolds numbers .
the study of energy relations is very much emphasized .  it is shown
that the disturbance will gain energy from the main flow if the gradient
of the product of mean density and mean vorticity near the solid surface
has a sign opposite to that near the outer edge of the boundary layer .
  a general stability criterion has been obtained in terms of the
gradient of the product of density and vorticity, analogous to the
rayleigh-tollmien criterion for the case of an incompressible fluid .
if this gradient vanishes for some value of the velocity ratio of the
main flow exceeding 1-1/m (where m is the free stream mach number) .
.I 74
.T
an experimental study of the turbulen coundary layer
on a shock tube wall .
.A
gooderum,p.n.
.W
an experimental study of the turbulen coundary layer
on a shock tube wall .
  interferometric measurements were made of the density profiles of
an unsteady turbulent boundary layer on the flat wall of a shock tube .
the investigation included both subsonic and supersonic flow (mach
numbers of 0.50 and 1.77) with no pressure gradient and with heat transfer
to a cold wall .  velocity profiles and average skin-friction
coefficients were calculated .  effects on the velocity profile of
surface roughness and flow length are examined .
.I 75
.T
studies of structural failure due to acoustic loading .
.A
hess,n.w.
.W
studies of structural failure due to acoustic loading .
  some discussion of the acoustic fatigue problem of aircraft
structures is given along with data pertaining to the acoustic inputs from
some powerplants in common use .  comparisons are given for results of
some fatigue tests of flat panels and cantilever beams exposed to both
random- and discrete-type inputs .  in this regard it appears that both
the stress level of the test and the type of model are significant,.
hence, no generalization can be made at this time .  with regard to
increasing the fatigue life, it was noted that increased stiffening of
a panel due to curvature and pressure differential is particularly
beneficial .
